Xinyu Chen, Yaxing Liu, Qin Wang, Jiajun Lv, Jinyu Wen, Xia Chen, Chongqing Kang, Shijie Cheng, Michael B. McElroy,
Pathway toward carbon-neutral electrical systems in China by mid-century with negative CO2 abatement costs informed by high-resolution modeling,
Joule,
Volume 5, Issue 10,
2021,
Pages 2715-2741,
ISSN 2542-4351,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2021.10.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2542435121004505)
Abstract: Summary
China, the largest global CO2 emitter, recently announced ambitious targets for carbon neutrality by 2060. Its technical and economic feasibility is unclear given severe renewable integration barriers. Here, we developed a cross-sector, high-resolution assessment model to quantify optimal energy structures on provincial bases for different years. Hourly power system simulations for all provinces for a full year are incorporated on the basis of comprehensive grid data to quantify the renewable balancing costs. Results indicate that the conventional strategy of employing local wind, solar, and storage to realize 80% renewable penetration by 2050 would incur a formidable decarbonization cost of $27/ton despite lower levelized costs for renewables. Coordinated deployment of renewables, ultra-high-voltage transmissions, storages, Power-to-gas and slow-charging electric vehicles can reduce this carbon abatement cost to as low as $−25/ton. Were remaining emissions removed by carbon capture and sequestration technologies, achieving carbon neutrality could be not only feasible but also cost-competitive post 2050.
Keywords: carbon neutrality, decarbonization pathway, power system planning, flexibility, electric vehicles, power-to-gas, storage, transmission expansion

Stian Backe, Magnus Korpås, Asgeir Tomasgard,
Heat and electric vehicle flexibility in the European power system: A case study of Norwegian energy communities,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 125,
2021,
106479,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2020.106479.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061520322079)
Abstract: This paper investigates sector coupling between the central power system and local energy communities, including heat supply for buildings and charging of electric vehicles. We propose a stochastic linear programming framework to study long-term investments under uncertain short-term operations of nationally aggregated assets. We apply the model to a case study assuming European power sector decarbonization towards 2060 according to a 1.5 degree scenario, and we investigate the impact of coupling building heat systems and electric vehicle charging in Norway with the European power market. The case study focuses on the role of Norway in a European perspective because: (1) Norwegian electricity production is mainly based on flexible and renewable hydropower, (2) Norwegian building heating systems are currently mainly electric, and (3) Norway is already introducing electric vehicles at large. We focus on the European power market to test our hypothesis that it is more cost-efficient to decarbonize when the central power system is coordinated with building heat systems and electric vehicle charging. For Europe as a whole, results show that the average European electricity cost reduces by 3% and transmission expansion decreases by 0.4% when Norwegian heat systems are developed in coordination with the European power system. The average Norwegian electricity cost decreases by 19%. The strategy includes supplying up to 20% of Norwegian buildings with district heating fueled by waste and biomass, and the remaining electric heating supply is dominated by heat pumps.
Keywords: Multi-energy-system modeling; Capacity expansion; Stochastic programming; Energy flexibility; Sector coupling

Mujahed Al-Dhaifallah, Mohamed M. Refaat, Zuhair Alaas, Shady H.E. Abdel Aleem, Elwy E. El-kholy, Ziad M. Ali,
Multi-objectives transmission expansion planning considering energy storage systems and high penetration of renewables and electric vehicles under uncertain conditions,
Energy Reports,
Volume 11,
2024,
Pages 4143-4164,
ISSN 2352-4847,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2024.03.060.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352484724002051)
Abstract: Transmission expansion planning (TEP) integrating electric vehicles (EVs) and renewable energy sources (RESs) is pivotal for the transition toward cleaner and more sustainable energy systems. One of the biggest challenges in TEP with EVs and RESs is the uncertainty inherent in their behaviors. Managing this uncertainty is critical for ensuring the grid's reliability and resilience, and for facilitating a seamless transition to EVs. A potent method for addressing uncertainties in power systems is the application of a scenario-based approach. However, the efficiency of this approach is contingent upon an increase in the number of representative scenarios, which, in turn, escalates computational time, making solving the TEP problem a crucial task. To tackle these challenges, this paper proposes a multi-objective resilience model for TEP, to advance towards more sustainable energy systems. The model seeks to strike a balance between economic, environmental, and technical considerations by minimizing planning costs, carbon dioxide emissions, and enhancing the voltage profile. Furthermore, the paper proposes a cascaded intelligent strategy to handle uncertainties and reduce computational complexity by reducing the number of representative scenarios without compromising system reliability. The adaptive neuro-inference system is designed to manage long-term uncertainties, while two fuzzy systems are developed to address short-term uncertainties. The problem is formulated as a complex non-linear multi-objective optimization problem. To address this, a hybrid approach combining the mountain gazelle optimizer and the multi-objective salp swarm optimizer is developed to solve the problem. The efficacy of the proposed method is validated on two separate test systems, demonstrating its superiority in maintaining system reliability while reducing computing time by at least 92 % in comparison with the considered traditional methods. The results also highlight the superior performance of the proposed hybrid algorithm compared to existing meta-heuristic algorithms in solving the TEP.
Keywords: Transmission expansion planning; Electric vehicles; Renewable energy sources; Fuzzy systems; Hybrid optimization algorithms

Juan Pablo Carvallo, Stephanie Bieler, Myles Collins, Joscha Mueller, Christoph Gehbauer, Douglas J. Gotham, Peter H. Larsen,
A framework to measure the technical, economic, and rate impacts of distributed solar, electric vehicles, and storage,
Applied Energy,
Volume 297,
2021,
117160,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.117160.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261921005948)
Abstract: This study explores the joint impacts across the power system of distributed energy resources (DER) that could be deployed in utility distribution systems through an analysis of generation, transmission, and distribution expansion and costs driven by DER adoption. We identify six adoption scenarios that combine deployment levels of rooftop solar photovoltaic modules (PV), electric vehicle charging (EV), and battery storage in residential and commercial customers connected to representative feeders in Indiana by 2025 and 2040. Indiana is a good proxy for many U.S. states with low current DER adoption but potentially high future growth. The economic value of DER is assessed by developing capacity expansion and power flow analysis of the generation and distribution segments, respectively, under future hourly demand assumptions based on each adoption scenarios. Results for the distribution system power flow simulations show that voltage violations are relatively rare. Voltage violations can be mitigated at a very low cost using a combination of smart inverters in future rooftop PV systems and voltage adjustments in the feeder heads. Line loading issues are minimal, with only 0.2% of simulation hours showing loading levels above 100% of capacity. Generation capacity impacts are driven by unmanaged EV charging and could be mitigated with charging management. We estimate that the incremental rate impact from power system investment and operation of increased DER adoption in Indiana will be between −1.6% to + 2% in 2025 and + 0.2% to + 15% in 2040 relative to the base case.
Keywords: Distributed energy resources; Power system; Cost benefit analysis; Rooftop solar

Morteza Azimi Nasab, Wedad Khamis Al-Shibli, Mohammad Zand, Behzad Ehsan-maleki, Sanjeevikumar Padmanaban,
Charging management of electric vehicles with the presence of renewable resources,
Renewable Energy Focus,
Volume 48,
2024,
100536,
ISSN 1755-0084,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ref.2023.100536.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1755008423001321)
Abstract: Considering the increasing use of electric vehicles, the establishment of charging stations to exchange power between the grid and electric devices, and the integration of charging stations with solar power generation sources, the optimal use of electric vehicle charging stations in the power system. The purpose of cost reduction in the presence of the intelligent environment is a challenge that must be investigated so that this platform is suitable for predicting the behaviour of vehicles and, as a result, optimizing their presence in the power network. This research presents a relatively complete radial distribution network development planning model in two scenarios. In the first scenario, the effects of electric vehicles are not considered, and only the effects of distributed production (renewable and dispatchable) are considered. Studies have been done on a sample 54-bus network, a common system in most Distribution expansion planning (DEP) articles for distribution networks. In addition, the real data of American highways have been used to create raw input data. Also, due to the distance limit, the information on vehicles under 100 miles has been received as electric vehicle information. The clustering method and Capiola multivariate probability distribution functions have created suitable vehicle scenarios during different planning years. Capiola’s method increases the accuracy of vehicle load forecasting according to a predetermined growth rate. The DEP problem in this research is modeled as an optimization problem based on scenario, dynamic, and in 5 one-year time frames (5-year time horizon and one-year accuracy). The results indicate that, in the presence of electric vehicles and distributed production sources, the technical characteristics of the network are improved. Similarly, the use of DGs, in addition to reducing the cost of equipment, has reduced undistributed energy in the system. But 10,000 vehicles, which have been applied to the network as an uncontrolled load, have caused an increase in undistributed energy. The cost of equipment required for the network development is almost as much as 5%.
Keywords: Energy management strategy; Electric vehicles; Planning; Distribution; Uncertainty modeling

Francisco Manríquez, Enzo Sauma, José Aguado, Sebastián de la Torre, Javier Contreras,
The impact of electric vehicle charging schemes in power system expansion planning,
Applied Energy,
Volume 262,
2020,
114527,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.114527.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261920300398)
Abstract: This study analyzes the impacts of the massive electrification of vehicles on the power system expansion planning and operation for the year 2030. For this purpose, a long-term generation and transmission expansion co-optimization model is used, which captures the hourly operational dynamics of the system by means of the use of representative days. This is relevant since smart charging schemes for Electric Vehicles (EVs) are available, and their benefits are intertwined with the hourly available generation (especially solar), the level of demand, and the transmission capacity. Private and public EVs’ demand is considered through five main scenarios, which differ in the number of EVs and the charging strategies used (i.e., upon-arrival charging or smart charging). The analysis is illustrated using the Chilean power grid. The numerical results show that a massive penetration of EVs in the Chilean power generation system will heavily encourage solar power capacity investments. Furthermore, smart charging allows for an additional increase in the solar power installed, leading (in the Chilean case) to an extra 2.4% increase in solar power generation and an additional 2.5% decrease in fossil fuel-based generation, which was commonly used to offer flexibility to the system. These effects are diminished if a high-enough level of solar power is not feasible. In addition, some sensitivity analyses are made in order to identify the specific influences of some of the model parameters.
Keywords: Power system expansion planning; Electric vehicles; Smart charging; Solar power; Flexibility

Omar J. Guerra, Diego A. Tejada, Gintaras V. Reklaitis,
An optimization framework for the integrated planning of generation and transmission expansion in interconnected power systems,
Applied Energy,
Volume 170,
2016,
Pages 1-21,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2016.02.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261916301374)
Abstract: Energy, and particularly electricity, has played and will continue to play a very important role in the development of human society. Electricity, which is the most flexible and manageable energy form, is currently used in a variety of activities and applications. For instance, electricity is used for heating, cooling, lighting, and for operating electronic appliances and electric vehicles. Nowadays, given the rapid development and commercialization of technologies and devices that rely on electricity, electricity demand is increasing faster than overall primary energy supply. Consequently, the design and planning of power systems is becoming a progressively more important issue in order to provide affordable, reliable and sustainable energy in timely fashion, not only in developed countries but particularly in developing economies where electricity demand is increasing even faster. Power systems are networks of electrical devices, such as power plants, transformers, and transmission lines, used to produce, transmit, and supply electricity. The design and planning of such systems require the selection of generation technologies, along with the capacity, location, and timing of generation and transmission capacity expansions to meet electricity demand over a long-term horizon. This manuscript presents a comprehensive optimization framework for the design and planning of interconnected power systems, including the integration of generation and transmission capacity expansion planning. The proposed framework also considers renewable energies, carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) technologies, demand-side management (DSM), as well as reserve and CO2 emission constraints. The novelty of this framework relies on an integrated assessment of the aforementioned features, which can reveal possible interactions and synergies within the power system. Moreover, the capabilities of the proposed framework are demonstrated using a suite of case studies inspired by a real-world power system, including “business as usual” and “CO2 mitigation policy” scenarios. These case studies illustrated the adaptability and effectiveness of the framework at dealing with typical situations that can arise in designing and planning power systems.
Keywords: Optimization framework; Integrated design and planning; Generation and transmission expansion; Interconnected power systems; Reserve and emission constraints

Chenyu Wang, Zhigang Lu, Jiangfeng Zhang, Xiaoqiang Guo, Yanlin Li, Jiangyong Zhang,
Planning and economic analysis of low-carbon transition of East China power system considering electricity-hydrogen coupling,
Renewable Energy,
Volume 249,
2025,
123244,
ISSN 0960-1481,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2025.123244.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960148125009061)
Abstract: The transition of current electric power systems to low-carbon emissions is a critical task in power system planning. Due to the strong coupling between hydrogen and electric energy systems, considering the role of hydrogen in power system planning can increase the penetration rate of renewable energy and help the low-carbon transition. This paper uses planning and economic analysis to determine the path to a low-carbon transition in East China. First, an electricity-hydrogen coupling generation and transmission expansion planning model is constructed with the total system planning cost as the objective function. Then, a low-dimensional matrix modeling method that considers energy conversion equipment, energy storage equipment, demand response and energy networks is proposed. Finally, the planning results of various scenarios and the low-carbon transition path under the optimal scenario are analyzed, and the impacts of the cost of hydrogen production through water electrolysis and the charging mode of electric vehicles are also investigated. The case study results show that the proposed low-dimensional matrix modeling method can effectively solve the long-term planning problem for large-scale systems, and changes in the expected carbon neutral time will affect the speed and scale of the expansion of power generation and transmission capacity at each stage. The case study also indicates that electricity-hydrogen coupling reduces carbon emissions and total planning costs by 18.8 % and 10.7 %, respectively and reduce 38 % imported energy from other regions for East China.
Keywords: Renewable energy; Electricity-hydrogen coupling; Low carbon transition; Carbon peak; Carbon neutrality

Qianzhi Zhang, Yuechen Sopia Liu, H.Oliver Gao, Fengqi You,
A data-aided robust approach for bottleneck identification in power transmission grids for achieving transportation electrification ambition: a case study in New York state,
Advances in Applied Energy,
Volume 14,
2024,
100173,
ISSN 2666-7924,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adapen.2024.100173.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666792424000118)
Abstract: As the enthusiasm for electric vehicles passes the range anxiety and other tests, large-scale transportation electrification becomes a prominent topic in research and policy discussions. In consequence, the public attention has shifted upstream and holistically towards the integration of large-scale transportation electrification to power systems. This paper proposes a method to identify bottlenecks in power transmission systems to accommodate large-scale and stochastic electric vehicles charging demands. First, a distributionally robust chance-constrained direct current optimal power flow model is developed to quantify the impacts of stochastic electric vehicles charging demands. Subsequently, an agent-based model with the trip-chain method is applied to obtain the spatiotemporal distributions of electric vehicles charging demands for both light-duty electric vehicles and medium and heavy-duty electric vehicles. The first two moments of those distributions are extracted to build an ambiguity set of electric vehicles charging demands. Finally, a 121-bus synthetic transmission network for New York State power systems is used to validate the future transportation electrification in New York State from 2025 to 2035. Results show that the large-scale transportation electrification in New York State will account for approximately 13.33 % to 16.79 % of the total load demand by 2035. The transmission capacity is the major bottleneck in supporting New York State to achieve its transportation electrification. To resolve the bottlenecks, we explore some possible solutions, such as transmission capacity expansion and distributed energy resources investment. Wind power shows an advantage over solar energy in terms of total operational costs due to better peak alignment between wind power and electric vehicles charging demand.
Keywords: Bottleneck identification; Distributionally robust optimization; Electric vehicle charging; Power transmission systems; Transportation Electrification at Scale; Trip Chain Method
