Khalil Gholami, Asef Nazari, Dhananjay Thiruvady, Valeh Moghaddam, Sutharshan Rajasegarar, Wei-Yu Chiu,
Risk-constrained community battery utilisation optimisation for electric vehicle charging with photovoltaic resources,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 97, Part A,
2024,
112646,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.112646.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X24022321)
Abstract: High penetration of renewable energy generation in the electricity grid presents power system operators with challenges, including voltage instability, mainly due to fluctuating power generation. To address the challenges that arise from intermittent renewable generation, we explore the introduction of community batteries to provide an elegant solution for storing excess generation of renewable energy resources (RESs) and reverting to the grid in peak demand periods. In particular, determining the optimal battery type and size along with the minimum costs is challenging. Moreover, the growth in adapting electrical vehicles (EVs) imposes additional demand-related challenges on the power system, compared to the traditional industrial and household demands. This paper introduces a long-term planning strategy for community batteries to capture the surplus generation of rooftop photovoltaic (PV) panels in a given area, and direct the stored energy to charge EVs, without injecting to the upstream grid. For long-term investment planning on batteries, we consider 15 years’ worth of historical data associated with solar irradiance, temperature, EV demands, and household demands. A novel stochastic mathematical model is proposed for decision-making on battery specifications (the type and capacity of the batteries needed per year) based on the four standard battery types (based on capacity) provided by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) in Australia. Uncertainties related to the EVs and RESs are captured by a non-parametric robust technique, namely the information gap decision theory, from optimistic and pessimistic perspectives. The investment decision determining component is formulated as a mixed-integer linear programming problem, incorporating the GUROBI optimisation tool, that provides a feasible global solution with a low computational burden. Our proposed solution not only determines the optimal battery installation strategies to improve the stability profile of the grid by capturing the excess power of PV generation but also facilitates EV integration in the community towards reaching the net-zero emissions target. For example, our analysis indicates that the community batteries bring significant cost advantage, in excess of $6 million, by installing type 4 batteries (4-hour capacity batteries) with over 6000 capacity, in a community inside a PV-rich residential area considered for the analysis, in comparison to scenarios without the community battery inclusion.
Keywords: Community battery; Investment planning; Solar photovoltaic generation; Renewable energy; Electric vehicles

Kirti Pal, Tripti Kunj,
Electric vehicle fast charging station energy management system for radial distribution network with a photo-voltaic distributed generator (PV-DG),
e-Prime - Advances in Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Energy,
Volume 9,
2024,
100694,
ISSN 2772-6711,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prime.2024.100694.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772671124002742)
Abstract: As the demand for electric vehicles (EVs) increases in all countries, automobile companies are launching different types of EVs. Installation of EVCS in the present power system network without modification can cause an extra burden on the present network. However, this extra burden can be reduced if EVCS gets a supply of renewable energy resources. This paper proposes energy management schemes by installing a photo-voltaic distributed generator (PV-DG) and energy storage system (ESS) at an EVCS. An IEEE-33 bus system for the Saudi Arabia United Kingdom rural location has been selected to introduce real-time energy management schemes. In this radial distribution network (RDN), three EVCS of different capacities are installed at different locations to maintain the stability of the network. The power flow program is used in the MATLAB environment to check the stability of the network. Accurate solar data, traffic patterns, and EV charging patterns in Saudi Arabia are collected and used for energy management at EVCS. Three cases are used for comparison: EVCS annual charges, EVCS annual benefits, and grid annual fuel charges. All proposed cases are also simulated in MATLAB using MATPOWER6 to check the impact on voltage profile and power line flows.
Keywords: EVCS; Photo-voltaic distributed generator; Energy storage system; Annual cost; Energy management; Radial distribution network

Changwoo Yoon, Young-Il Lee, Yong Cheol Kang,
Autonomous Frequency Regulation of a Grid-Following Converter Powered by Battery Energy Storage System,
IFAC-PapersOnLine,
Volume 55, Issue 9,
2022,
Pages 175-180,
ISSN 2405-8963,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2022.07.031.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405896322004165)
Abstract: This paper deals with an Autonomous Frequency Regulation (AFR) of a grid-following (GFL) converter powered by a Battery Energy Storage System(BESS). It deals with the frequency stabilization function of a small-sized BESS system that will be widely used along with the spread of electric vehicles and eco-friendly housing. As requirements of AFR, it should be able to actively respond to the frequency deviation using the measured voltage at a PCC (Point of Common Coupling). Due to battery capacity limitation, the variation of energy in a BESS for AFR should be limited to a level that does not affect the original installation purpose (e.g., load transfer, uninterruptible power supply, etc.). So in this paper, a new AFR method has been proposed, which uses a PI-based selective frequency damping and achieves cooperative frequency support while obeying the Electric Power System (EPS)’ frequency control scheme. As a verification, the effect of the proposed AFR algorithm mounted on the GFL converter is simulated in a modified IEEE-14 bus system having multiple random loads and multiple distributed ESSs.
Keywords: Frequency Regulation; Frequency Support; Autonomous, Battery; Energy Storage System

Linfei Yin, Wei Ge,
Mobileception-ResNet for transient stability prediction of novel power systems,
Energy,
Volume 309,
2024,
133163,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2024.133163.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544224029384)
Abstract: Power system transient stability prediction (TSP) is particularly important as power systems change and evolve, including the rapid growth of renewable energy, the proliferation of electric vehicles, and the construction of smart grids. Traditional time-domain simulation methods are time-consuming and cannot achieve online prediction. Direct methods are poorly adapted and cannot be applied to complex power systems. Existing machine learning algorithms only classify the transient stability without providing the degree of transient stability of the system. Therefore, a fast and accurate power system TSP method is needed to assist operators in implementing timely measures to improve the stability of the power system running. This study proposes a Mobileception-ResNet network, Mobileception-ResNet is formed by Inception-ResNet-v2, MobileNet-v2, and a fully connected layer. In this study, Mobileception-ResNet and nine comparison models are experimented on two node systems, i.e., the IEEE 10–39 and 69–300 systems. In the IEEE 10–39 system, the root mean square error, mean absolute error, and mean absolute percentage error of Mobileception-ResNet are 44.13 %, 36.74 %, and 39.96 % lower, and the coefficient of determination is 0.04 % higher, respectively, when compared to the comparative model with the best evaluation indicator; in the IEEE 69–300 system, the corresponding values are 2.6 %, 12.83 %, 12.55 %, and 0.01 %, respectively.
Keywords: Transient stability; Deep learning; MobileNet-v2; Convolutional neural network; Inception-ResNet-v2

Tao Hai, Jincheng Zhou, Mehrdad khaki,
Optimal planning and design of integrated energy systems in a microgrid incorporating electric vehicles and fuel cell system,
Journal of Power Sources,
Volume 561,
2023,
232694,
ISSN 0378-7753,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2023.232694.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378775323000691)
Abstract: In recent decades, as a result of diminishing fossil fuel reserves and rising social concern, electric power systems as one of the largest sectors for environmental emissions, have had no choice but to search for alternatives to alleviate the environmental problems due to conventional generation system. Plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) can cause difficulties in the electrical grid and system operation. To circumvent this issue, an efficacious stochastic optimization model is developed in this paper to enable the control entity to manage generation and storage assets by controlling the charging behavior of PEVs. To achieve the lowest total cost, a new strategy for reducing reliability costs is proposed. In this regard, vehicle-to-grid (V2G) tool is used to reduce the overall system cost. The presented energy management model for the MG in the grid-connected mode takes into consideration the uncertainty of output power of the wind turbine (WT) and the photovoltaic (PV), as well as the PEVs’ charging and discharging. In this study, an innovative and effective optimization algorithm known as the modified fluid search optimization algorithm (MFSO) is utilized to optimize the MG operation problem. The results show that the suggested model incorporating electric vehicles (EVs) can enable MG operation at the minimum cost and reliability. As can be observed, the amount of time required by the presented method to solve the first case problem is 6.64s, which is significantly less than the amount of time required by the other methods. In a similar vein, the MFSO method is noticeably quicker than both GA and PSO when applied to case studies 2 and 3.
Keywords: Fuel cell; MG model; Electric vehicle; Energy systems; Optimal planning

Musa Terkes, Alpaslan Demirci, Erdin Gokalp,
An evaluation of optimal sized second-life electric vehicle batteries improving technical, economic, and environmental effects of hybrid power systems,
Energy Conversion and Management,
Volume 291,
2023,
117272,
ISSN 0196-8904,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2023.117272.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0196890423006180)
Abstract: Electric vehicle (EV) batteries provide energy and power sufficiently until their capacity degradation reaches 80%. Afterward, EV batteries need to remove due to their insufficient power and energy capacity to satisfy the range and speed requirements. Increasing EV sales means numerous second-life batteries (SLB) will be available for second-use applications. Besides the price and capacity differences of SLB, technical properties such as depth of discharge (DOD), temperature, and cycle life will directly affect the performance. This study comprehensively examines SLB feasibility, focusing on the technical and financial uncertainties of SLBs in stationary energy storage applications. In addition, the contribution of SLB to the marginal cost-revenue balance is optimized by considering various operating criteria and four different battery aging sub-models. The remaining capacity and DOD effects were analyzed, and break-even points were determined. Sensitivity analyses also assess the carbon tax and the performance of SLB in different climatic zones. Finally, the accuracy of technical, economic, and environmental performance has been increased with multi-year sensitivity analysis. According to optimal results, SLB could increase energy efficiency up to 14% with 80% capacity and under 80% DOD. It has also been found that if the SLB cost is less than 57% of the fresh battery (FB), the same system will reach the break-even point. Thanks to the carbon tax, SLB reduced discount payback for up to 3 years, increased RF by up to 5%, and improved state of health (SOH) by 13%, giving sustainable environmental and economic results.
Keywords: Hybrid power system; Electric vehicle; Renewable energy; Second-life battery; Carbon tax

James Owens, Ian Miller, Emre Gençer,
Can vehicle-to-grid facilitate the transition to low carbon energy systems?††Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: https://doi.org/10.1039/d2ya00204c,
Energy Advances,
Volume 1, Issue 12,
2022,
Pages 984-998,
ISSN 2753-1457,
https://doi.org/10.1039/d2ya00204c.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2753145723000848)
Abstract: ABSTRACT
Vehicle-to-grid (V2G) is when electric vehicles (EVs) provide services to the power grid, such as shifting when they charge or discharging to serve peaks loads. At scale, an aggregator can coordinate and optimize the charge and discharge of individual vehicles to function as a synergistic, bulk energy resource and load. Here we generate new insights into V2G's long run value for deep decarbonization, assessing its potential to displace stationary storage and other generators at scale. As a case study, V2G impact is measured via the buildout and operation of a New England-sized power system subject to high EV penetration and tight emissions constraints. We find V2G's effect on system capacity and value to be substantial, with participation from 13.9% of the New England light-duty vehicle fleet displacing 14.7 GW of stationary storage (over $700 million in capital savings). On the whole, total system savings span 2.2% to 20.3% ($183–1326 million) between participation rates of 5% and 80%, respectively. Savings are driven first by displacement of stationary storage, and second by reductions in firm generation capacity and shifts in renewable generation portfolios. When compared to traditional demand response schemes, even at modest participation rates (5–10%), V2G yields over 337% more savings and tenfold the storage displacement. V2G's marginal benefit is greatest under aggressive emission caps (10 gCO2 per kW per h per load), as it decreases the need for excess renewables capacity and costly CCS technologies. Further, the nature of optimal V2G dispatch is shown to change non-monotonically with participation rate. Below 50% participation, V2G power injection is called on at a higher rate to shave evening charging loads, with 21.3–32.8% of charge reinjected to the grid, whereas greater participation rates require significantly less reinjection (<15%) via charge load shifting. Finally, our destination-based system topology quantifies locational V2G contributions and reveals that V2G capabilities are as much as 2.5 times more valued in residential areas than at workplaces alone.

Liangcai Xu, Xubo Gu, Ziyou Song,
Optimal charging for large-scale heterogeneous electric vehicles: A novel paradigm based on learning and backward clustering,
Applied Energy,
Volume 382,
2025,
125232,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.125232.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261924026163)
Abstract: As the number of electric vehicles (EVs) surges, how to optimally manage the diverse charging behaviors of substantial heterogeneous EVs presents a significant challenge, as random charging activities may cause catastrophic consequences to disrupt power systems. While centralized control methods have garnered attention for their potential to achieve global optimality, they are primarily suitable for small or medium-sized EV fleets due to their high computational demands. In this work, to harness the benefits of centralized control methods while remarkably enhancing computational efficiency, a novel backward clustering scheme is introduced. The scheme is trained using optimal scheduling datasets collected from substantial cases involving small-scale EVs to categorize heterogeneous EVs with similar charging patterns but distinct states during dynamic charging. Subsequently, an online model predictive control is utilized to effectively manage distinct groups of EVs identified by the clustering method, rather than individual EVs. This control paradigm notably reduces the control dimension, alleviating the computational burden of centralized control. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed control paradigm shows satisfactory performance, achieving near-optimal performance with only a 3% increase in total charging costs even in the case where 1000 EVs randomly participate in energy and ancillary electricity markets. More importantly, the calculation time can be reduced by 92% when compared to the benchmark methods, making its real-time implementation feasible.
Keywords: Large-scale electric vehicles; Optimal charging; Learning-based scheme; Clustering-based centralized control; Computational efficiency

Saeed Zeynali, Nima Nasiri, Sajad Najafi Ravadanegh, Sylvain Kubler, Yves Le Traon,
Distributionally robust unit commitment in integrated multi-energy systems with coordinated electric vehicle fleets,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 225,
2023,
109832,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2023.109832.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779623007204)
Abstract: The widespread adaptation of electric vehicles will extend their impact from power systems to natural gas and heating networks since these energy systems are delicately interconnected. This study investigates uncoordinated and coordinated charging control strategies of electric vehicle fleets (EVFs) in network-constrained multi-energy systems (NMES). A mixed-integer second-order cone programming (MISOCP) model is presented to capture the nonlinearities in EVFs battery degradation cost, power flow equations of the electric distribution system (EDS) and natural gas network (NGN). To deal with uncertain renewable energy production, a Wasserstein-based distributionally robust optimization (DRO) framework is applied. Moreover, the behavioral uncertainties in EVFs’ traveled distance and arrival/departure times are also taken into account. The model is implemented on two different NMES sizes (one small and one large benchmark systems) to assess the models functionality and scalability in real-world applications. The outcomes illustrate how smart and uncoordinated EVF charging strategies can impact each of these networks, while the proposed DRO model leads a conservative estimation over the probability distribution functions of renewable energy production. Most notably, using the smart charging strategy led to 50.55% reduction in the operational costs of the small test system and 27.83% for the large test system. Furthermore, despite the lowered risk and heightened reliability, the application with DRO model showed 23.67% and 5.88% higher cost for the small and large systems, respectively.
Keywords: Vehicle-to-grid; Distributionally robust optimization; Second-order cone programming; Integrated energy systems; District heating system; Natural gas network

Flora Charbonnier, Thomas Morstyn, Malcolm D. McCulloch,
Scalable multi-agent reinforcement learning for distributed control of residential energy flexibility,
Applied Energy,
Volume 314,
2022,
118825,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2022.118825.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261922002689)
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel scalable type of multi-agent reinforcement learning-based coordination for distributed residential energy. Cooperating agents learn to control the flexibility offered by electric vehicles, space heating and flexible loads in a partially observable stochastic environment. In the standard independent Q-learning approach, the coordination performance of agents under partial observability drops at scale in stochastic environments. Here, the novel combination of learning from off-line convex optimisations on historical data and isolating marginal contributions to total rewards in reward signals increases stability and performance at scale. Using fixed-size Q-tables, prosumers are able to assess their marginal impact on total system objectives without sharing personal data either with each other or with a central coordinator. Case studies are used to assess the fitness of different combinations of exploration sources, reward definitions, and multi-agent learning frameworks. It is demonstrated that the proposed strategies create value at individual and system levels thanks to reductions in the costs of energy imports, losses, distribution network congestion, battery depreciation and greenhouse gas emissions.
Keywords: Energy management system; Multi-agent reinforcement learning; Demand-side response; Peer-to-peer; Prosumer; Smart grid

M.P. Anand, Bagen Bagen, Athula Rajapakse,
Reliability oriented distribution system analysis considering electric vehicles and hybrid energy resources,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 137,
2022,
107500,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2021.107500.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061521007390)
Abstract: Increased electric vehicle fleet and renewable energy resources penetration in power systems can directly affect the system reliability and impose additional complexities due to their uncertainties. In this paper, a complete methodology for performing a reliability-oriented distribution system analysis is proposed while capturing the complex interactions between electric vehicles and photovoltaic power production. Stochastic models have been used to emulate the uncertain nature of loads and generation pertained to electric vehicle charging and photovoltaic power availability. Monte Carlo simulation is used to analyze a range of best to worst-case scenarios for more optimal outcomes. Various computational models such as the electric vehicle charging station model, reliability evaluation model, and economic evaluation model are proposed to support the reliability and economic evaluation with necessary inputs. A sensitivity analysis is performed to illustrate the reliability and economic impact due to electric vehicle charging, photovoltaic power production and various operating strategies. Finally, an optimization algorithm is used to choose the optimal resource sizes considering the minimization of charging station related cost and cost of unreliability.
Keywords: Electric vehicles; Power system reliability; Monte Carlo simulation; Particle Swam optimization; Photovoltaic generation; Battery storage

Mojtaba Moradi-Sepahvand, Turaj Amraee, Farrokh Aminifar, Amirhossein Akbari,
Coordinated expansion planning of transmission and distribution systems integrated with smart grid technologies,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 147,
2023,
108859,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2022.108859.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061522008559)
Abstract: Integration of smart grid technologies in distribution systems, particularly behind-the-meter initiatives, has a direct impact on transmission network planning. This paper develops a coordinated expansion planning of transmission and active distribution systems via a stochastic multistage mathematical programming model. In the transmission level, in addition to lines, sitting and sizing of utility-scale battery energy storage systems and wind power plants under renewable portfolio standard policy are planned. Switchable feeders and distributed generations are decision variables in the distribution level while the impact of demand response programs as a sort of behind-the-meter technologies is accommodated as well. Expansion of electric vehicle taxi charging stations is included as a feasible option in both transmission and distribution levels. In order to deal with short-term uncertainty of load demand, renewable energy sources output power, and the charging pattern of electric vehicle taxis in each station, a chronological time-period clustering algorithm along with Monte Carlo simulation is utilized. The proposed model is tackled by means of Benders Dual Decomposition (BDD) method. The IEEE RTS test system (as the transmission system) along with four IEEE 33-node test feeders (as distribution test systems) are examined to validate effectiveness of the proposed model.
Keywords: Distribution system operator; Transmission system operator; Transmission and distribution expansion planning; Smart grid technologies

Chang Luo, Yang Yang, Zhen Zhong,
Multi-objective optimization of design and control parameters for hybrid electric-hydraulic propulsion systems considering the effects of battery degradation, mass increase, and energy loss,
Energy Conversion and Management,
Volume 321,
2024,
119061,
ISSN 0196-8904,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2024.119061.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0196890424010021)
Abstract: To address the increasingly severe environmental and energy crises, electric vehicles are occupying a growing proportion of the automotive market. In pure electric vehicles, frequent starting and braking conditions lead to a reduction in battery lifespan. The adoption of an “electric-hydraulic” hybrid power system can effectively mitigate this issue. However, the increase in vehicle mass due to the integration of hydraulic systems may affect the overall efficiency of the vehicle. In this study, we integrated a hydraulic energy storage system into a mid-sized pure electric sport utility vehicle (SUV), forming an “electric-hydraulic hybrid” power system. By comprehensively consider factors such as the extension of battery life, mass increase and energy efficiency, a multi-objective problem for the hydraulic energy storage system’s parameters was formulated. The optimization objectives include minimizing battery degradation, reducing the total weight of the energy storage system, and decreasing overall vehicle losses under typical operating conditions. The key parameters of the hydraulic energy storage system and the torque distribution coefficients over typical operating time profiles were considered as the optimization variables. A genetic algorithm was employed to optimize the system parameters, resulting in a Pareto front of the solutions for the hydraulic energy storage system and torque distribution parameters. The system parameters corresponding to the minimum values of the different objective functions were comparatively analyzed. The system parameters that yielded minimal battery degradation were selected to simulate the charging and discharging currents under typical operating conditions. Throughout the operating cycle, the maximum and average discharging currents decreased by 12.7% and 22.9%, respectively, whereas the maximum and average charging currents decreased by 27.4% and 45%, respectively. According to the simulation results, the integration of a hydraulic energy storage system significantly suppressed charging and discharging currents, particularly during frequent acceleration and deceleration conditions under typical operating cycles. A test bench was established and braking experiments were conducted. The effectiveness of the hydraulic energy storage system in reducing battery current was preliminarily validated.
Keywords: Electric-hydraulic hybrid system; Battery capacity degradation; Loss minimization torque distribution; Multi-objective optimization

Vahid Vahidinasab, Saman Nikkhah, Adib Allahham, Damian Giaouris,
Boosting integration capacity of electric vehicles: A robust security constrained decision making,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 133,
2021,
107229,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2021.107229.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061521004683)
Abstract: Global electric vehicles (EVs) fleet is expanding at a rapid pace. Considering the uncertain driving pattern of EVs, they are dynamic consumers of electricity and their integration can give rise to operational problems and jeopardize the security of the power system. Under such circumstances, the implementation of demand-side response (DSR) programs is more likely to be an effective solution for reducing the risks of load curtailment or security problems. This study proposes a voltage stability constrained DSR-coordinated planning model for increasing the penetration level of EVs in a distribution system consisting of photovoltaics (PVs), wind turbines (WTs) and responsive loads. The uncertainties of PV/WT generation, the driving pattern of EVs, and load demand are modeled by an improved form of information gap decision theory (IGDT), hereafter called weighted IGDT (WIGDT). Due to the fact that the proposed model is nonlinear and non-convex, a linearization technique is adopted and the proposed model is formulated as a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP), solved using the general algebraic modeling system (GAMS) software. The standard 33-bus distribution test system and a real-world smart distribution network, based in the Isle of Wight in the UK, are used to evaluate the performance of the model.
Keywords: Electric vehicles (EVs); Renewable energy resource (RES); Planning; Demand-side response (DSR); Uncertainty

Pei Huang, Marco Lovati, Xingxing Zhang, Chris Bales, Sven Hallbeck, Anders Becker, Henrik Bergqvist, Jan Hedberg, Laura Maturi,
Transforming a residential building cluster into electricity prosumers in Sweden: Optimal design of a coupled PV-heat pump-thermal storage-electric vehicle system,
Applied Energy,
Volume 255,
2019,
113864,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.113864.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030626191931551X)
Abstract: Smart grid is triggering the transformation of traditional electricity consumers into electricity prosumers. This paper reports a case study of transforming an existing residential cluster in Sweden into electricity prosumers. The main energy concepts include (1) click-and-go photovoltaics (PV) panels for building integration, (2) centralized exhaust air heat pump, (3) thermal energy storage for storing excess PV electricity by using heat pump, and (4) PV electricity sharing within the building cluster for thermal/electrical demand (including electric vehicles load) on a direct-current micro grid. For the coupled PV-heat pump-thermal storage-electric vehicle system, a fitness function based on genetic algorithm is established to optimize the capacity and positions of PV modules at cluster level, with the purpose of maximizing the self-consumed electricity under a non-negative net present value during the economic lifetime. Different techno-economic key performance indicators, including the optimal PV capacity, self-sufficiency, self-consumption and levelized cost of electricity, are analysed under impacts of thermal storage integration, electric vehicle penetration and electricity sharing possibility. Results indicate that the coupled system can effectively improve the district-level PV electricity self-consumption rate to about 77% in the baseline case. The research results reveal how electric vehicle penetrations, thermal storage, and energy sharing affect PV system sizing/positions and the performance indicators, and thus help promote the PV deployment. This study also demonstrates the feasibility for transferring the existing Swedish building clusters into smart electricity prosumers with higher self-consumption and energy efficiency and more intelligence, which benefits achieving the ‘32% share of renewable energy source’ target in EU by 2030.
Keywords: Building cluster; Prosumer; PV optimization; Heat pump; Thermal storage; Electrical vehicle

M. Gomez-Gonzalez, J.C. Hernandez, D. Vera, F. Jurado,
Optimal sizing and power schedule in PV household-prosumers for improving PV self-consumption and providing frequency containment reserve,
Energy,
Volume 191,
2020,
116554,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2019.116554.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544219322492)
Abstract: This paper presents a methodology for jointly optimizing the sizing and power management of PV household-prosumers, namely, photovoltaic (PV) power, electric vehicle charging load (EVCL), household consumption load (HCL), battery bank (BB), and power converters. The optimization includes PV self-consumption enhancement and frequency containment reserve (FCR). This innovative model uses an annual techno-economic assessment to calculate the total costs and revenue by means of the teaching-learning-based optimization (TLBO) algorithm. The assessment of BB aging takes into account the charge/discharge power as well as the depth of discharge (DOD). This methodology is applied to Spanish PV household-prosumers. Results are obtained for scenarios involving PV, EV, and BB. Moreover, the PV household-prosumer approximated the smart user concept by providing FCR service. The scenarios envisaged examined potential revenues based on markets (day-ahead and FCR market) and their influence on profitability. The results of this study confirmed that BB is a cost-effective way of enhancing PV self-consumption by decreasing the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE). In fact, when FCR provision was added, there was a significant increase in the total revenue with a relatively low impact on BB aging.
Keywords: Batteries; Electric vehicle; Frequency containment reserve; Lifetime; Power management strategy; PV power systems

Mohammed H. Alsharif, Faisal Alsaif, Manish Kumar Singla, Saibal Manna, Mun-Kyeom Kim,
Techno-economic optimization and environmental analysis of a solar-powered Electric Vehicles (EVs) charger system for a greener transportation ecosystem,
Energy Reports,
Volume 13,
2025,
Pages 5803-5814,
ISSN 2352-4847,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2025.05.040.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S235248472500318X)
Abstract: As the electric vehicle (EV) sector continues to grow, the environmental benefits of EVs increasingly depend on the energy sources powering charging stations, which are often supplied by the conventional electrical grid. Therefore, the adoption of sustainable charging solutions is becoming essential. This study investigates the integration of solar energy into EV charging infrastructure as a strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, aligning with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 7 and 13. Focused on a 7 kW Level 2 charger, the analysis addresses optimal solar system sizing, energy output, economic feasibility, environmental impact, and sensitivity considerations. The proposed system including a 34 kW photovoltaic (PV) array, a 192-unit battery storage system, and an 8 kW inverter delivers consistent performance under real-world conditions, factoring in system losses, seasonal solar variations, and battery efficiency. The PV system generates 62,294 kWh annually, meeting an EV demand of 38,325 kWh/year and yielding a surplus of 31.54 %. The battery storage provides 66.4 hours of autonomy, ensuring energy availability during low solar generation periods. Economically, the system’s net present cost (NPC) is $192,420, with an initial capital cost of $94,800, 60.76 % of which is attributed to battery investments. Battery replacements constitute 97.34 % of total replacement costs, while operation and maintenance (O&M) expenses total $38,567. A salvage value of $12,638 helps reduces overall lifecycle costs. Environmentally, the solar-powered system achieves an 87.5 % reduction in GHG emissions, emitting only 1917 kg CO2/year compared to 15,330 kg CO2/year for grid-based charging. These findings demonstrate that solar-powered EV charging offers both a cost-effective and environmentally sustainable solution, contributing meaningfully to global sustainability efforts.
Keywords: EVs; Electric vehicle; Eco-friendly transportation; SDGs; Energy reliability; Economic feasibility; Sustainable energy; GHG; EVCS; Solar energy; PV; Carbon emissions; Climate change

Jingjing Tian, Hongfei Jia, Guanfeng Wang, Qiuyang Huang, Ruiyi Wu, Heyao Gao, Chao Liu,
Integrated optimization of charging infrastructure, fleet size and vehicle operation in shared autonomous electric vehicle system considering vehicle-to-grid,
Renewable Energy,
Volume 229,
2024,
120760,
ISSN 0960-1481,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2024.120760.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960148124008280)
Abstract: Shared autonomous electric vehicles (SAEVs) are predicted to become a significant solution to reduce global emissions and energy consumption resulting from urban transportation. The centralized operation of SAEVs not only allows large-scale travel demand response but also can provide essential ancillary services to the smart grid through the concept of vehicle-to-grid (V2G). With V2G technology, unused electric vehicles can work as a distributed energy storage facility for the electricity grid to smoothen the intermittent demand. Designing and operating a V2G-enabled SAEV system is challenging. This problem involves complicated planning and operational decisions, as well as time-varying electric tariffs. In this work, a flow-based Integer Linear Programming (ILP) model is formulated for determining the optimal configurations (charging infrastructure and fleet size) and daily operation strategies (serving passengers, relocation, charging/discharging). The developed mathematical model allows for maximizing the total profit, comprising investment cost, revenue from serving passengers, and V2G profit through charging/discharging schedules. A two-stage Benders decomposition-based algorithm is proposed to address the sophisticated ILP problem. Via testing instances in the Manhattan network based on real-world and synthetic data, we have demonstrated the feasibility of our approaches and studied the benefits of integrating V2G in the SAEV system.
Keywords: Shared autonomous electric vehicles; Vehicle-to-grid; Charging/discharging schedule; Integer linear programming model; Benders decomposition-based algorithm

Jianfeng Wen, Wei Gan, Chia-Chi Chu, Jingbo Wang, Lin Jiang,
Cooperative V2G-enabled vehicle-to-vehicle sharing in energy and reserve markets: A coalitional approach,
Applied Energy,
Volume 376, Part B,
2024,
124311,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.124311.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261924016945)
Abstract: The dynamics of electric vehicles (EVs) charging significantly influence the current power system dynamics. However, with advancements in battery technology and charging infrastructure, EVs can also serve as energy storage systems through vehicle-to-grid (V2G) technology. This opens up possibilities for novel approaches, such as a coalition-based V2G-enabled vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) energy and reserve sharing mechanism. Unlike traditional transactive energy models that often under-utilize EVs due to mismatches with smaller renewable outputs and peak loads, the proposed cooperative V2V sharing mechanism aims to maximize the use of EVs’ charging and discharging capabilities. It forms a grand coalition of EV users to optimize energy and reserve market participation. The model introduces mathematical formulations to describe how EVs collaborate in both energy and reserve markets. It ensures fairness and stability in pay allocations among users within the cooperative framework. The theoretical foundation includes proof of balance in the coalition approach and a two-stage imputation method to achieve fair and optimal payoff distribution. This minimizes incentives for users to defect from the coalition, ensuring stability. To address scalability challenges inherent in coalition formation problems, a decomposition algorithm is proposed. This algorithm enhances efficiency in solving problems that grow exponentially with the number of users. The effectiveness and superiority of this approach are validated through applications to various community energy systems of different sizes. The proposed plan can increase 22.21% of the total payoff in 10-users case and 22.39% in 30-users case. The computation time scales near-linearly with the number of users, although the computation scales exponentially with it. These demonstrations highlight its capability in modeling and solving complex energy sharing scenarios.
Keywords: Electric vehicle; Vehicle-to-grid technology; Flexibility provision; Vehicle-to-vehicle sharing; Coalitional approach

Hamid R. Sayarshad,
Designing vehicle-to-grid (V2G) aggregator fleet capacity for power grid reliability against cyberattacks,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 244,
2025,
111554,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2025.111554.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779625001464)
Abstract: This study introduces an integrated model that examines the interactions between power systems, the potential impacts of cyberattacks, and the role of electric vehicles (EVs) in regulation-up markets. The model determines the optimal EV fleet size for vehicle-to-grid (V2G) services during disaster scenarios, improving grid flexibility and providing ancillary services. It enables V2G aggregators to balance fleet availability with grid demands, ensuring efficient allocation of energy resources during crises. The study also explores monitoring the state of charge (SOC) to maintain sufficient battery levels for users’ trips. The study quantifies the total cost of using EVs for frequency regulation, accounting for electricity and battery degradation costs. In addition, it optimizes power flow within the network, which is vital for power utilities to maintain system reliability under adverse conditions. A proactive network interdiction strategy is incorporated to mitigate cyberattacks on the power network. The combined impact of generator losses and infected nodes on critical infrastructure is also analyzed. The effectiveness of the model is benchmarked through four case studies. It successfully eliminated load shedding while tackling operational and cybersecurity challenges. Under the proposed model, the total vehicle count has decreased by up to 14.7% compared to the other cases.
Keywords: Cyberattacks; Optimal power flow; Vehicle-to-grid (V2G) aggregators; Fleet size; State of charge (SOC); Regulation up

Jamiu O. Oladigbolu, Asad Mujeeb, Mohd Bilal, Yusuf A. Al-Turki, Saleh S. Alharbi, Salah S. Alharbi,
EV charging stations for sustainable urban transport electrification in the Arabian Peninsula: Performance assessment, social-economic aspects, opportunities, implementation challenges and strategic policies,
Energy Conversion and Management: X,
Volume 26,
2025,
101018,
ISSN 2590-1745,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecmx.2025.101018.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590174525001503)
Abstract: The rapid adoption of electric vehicles, renewable energy sources, and advancements in battery technologies necessitate efficient, sustainable, and socio-economically viable interdependent energy systems. The rising penetration of EVs intensifies interdependencies between urban transport and electric power systems through charging infrastructures. This study presents a novel hybrid energy system that integrates renewable energy sources such as solar photovoltaic and wind turbines, conventional diesel generators, battery storage, and distribution grids to reliably satisfy the charging demands of electric vehicles in urban environments. A Hybrid Grey Wolf Cuckoo Search Algorithm (HGWCSA), which synergistically combines the exploitation capabilities of Grey Wolf Optimization (GWO) and the exploration strengths of Cuckoo Search (CS), is employed to optimize the system’s sizing and operational performance of the charging system. The primary advantages of HGWCSA include faster convergence, superior solution accuracy, and robust capability to avoid local optima. The effectiveness and innovation of HGWCSA are validated through comparative performance assessments against conventional metaheuristic algorithms. The study further contributes novel insights by thoroughly assessing techno-economic feasibility, socio-economic opportunities, strategic policies, and implementation challenges within the context of sustainable e-mobility from a case study perspective in the Arabian Peninsula. Comprehensive simulations and comparative analyses demonstrate that the HGWCSA achieves the lowest Levelized cost of energy (LCOE) at $0.08/kWh and the minimum Total net present cost (TNPC) of $103,267, significantly reducing CO2 emissions compared to traditional optimization methods. Furthermore, sensitivity analyses validate the optimized system’s adaptability and long-term viability across diverse operational scenarios, significantly advancing sustainable urban transport electrification strategies.
Keywords: Renewable energy source; Hybrid grey wolf cuckoo search algorithm; Electric vehicle; Strategic policies; Battery storage; Arabian Peninsula

Mohammadhadi Rouhani, Mohammad Mohammadi, Marco Aiello,
Soft clustering based probabilistic power flow with correlated inter temporal events,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 204,
2022,
107677,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2021.107677.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779621006581)
Abstract: There is a growing demand to deploy renewable energy sources (RES) and plug-in electric vehicle (PEV) charging station (EVCS) in distribution networks. This, however, will change power grid landscapes and potentially impose uncertainties in short and long term grid planning. The solution to quantify randomness of intermittent events is to implement probabilistic power flow (PPF) analysis. The computation of PPF due to myriad sources of unknown uncertainties is very expensive. This computation analysis becomes more complex when inter-period temporal-spatial correlation and multivariate uncertainties are considered. This paper addresses the issue by resorting to a novel hybrid nonparametric algorithm for short-term PPF analysis in radial distribution networks. The proposed algorithm deals with probabilistic nonlinear loads, unit generators including PV panels, Wind farms, and EVCS charging pattern. Temporal correlation characterized by memory coefficient is used to model inter-event temporal correlation (IETC) over multiple time steps. Detailed uncertainty modeling of PEVs driving and their queues at EVCSs are included. The proposed method is superior over other existing numerical methods as it accounts for the multivariate inter temporal uncertainty events of RES and PEVs charging. Simulation results in a spatio-temporally correlated IEEE 34 node radial distribution system revealed that using IETC coefficients leads to improved prediction accuracy with average error less than 2.5% and improves the computation burden. The proposed method is applied to IEEE 123 node to test the performance of our proposed method. A comparative analysis is done with other well-known analytical/numerical methods. The PPF Computation time of our proposed method is shown to be faster than other methods when IETC is implemented. The results show insensitivity of our proposed method to the size of the system.
Keywords: Probabilistic power flow; Distribution networks; Soft clustering method; Plug-in electric vehicles; Inter-event time correlation

Saeid Gholami Farkoush, Abdul Wadood, Tahir Khurshaid, Chang-Hwan Kim, Sang-Bong Rhee,
Minimizing static VAR compensator capacitor size by using SMC and ASRFC controllers in smart grid with connected EV charger,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 107,
2019,
Pages 656-667,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2018.12.029.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061518328242)
Abstract: Electric Vehicles (EVs) play a pivotal role in reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases in the world. Currently demand for EVs has abruptly increased for transportation and other applications. Using more EVs causes an increasing load on the power system. Random EV charging yields voltage distortion, which results in an unbalanced grid. In a distributed system, the connection of EVs to the grid may diminish the power factor, which increases the apparent power loss. The Static VAR Compensator (SVC), which is a FACTS device, is applied to the power system to compensate the voltage distortions and apparent power loss. In this paper, two controlling methods are contemplated and tested in a SVC to reduce the apparent power loss and minimize the capacitor size of the SVC in comparison with the conventional control method in a SVC. Proposed methods are also compared with the conventional control method used for SVC. The Slide Mode Controller (SMC) and Asymmetric Synchronous Reference Frame Controller (ASRFC) with a Harmonic Voltage Compensator (HVC) are separately applied in the grid. This paper presents usage of SMC and ASRFC methods for decreasing size of capacitor and value of apparent power loss through computer simulations of a 22.9-kV grid. With application of new controllers, apparent power loss of grid will be reduced as compared with conventional method of SVC controller. Moreover, the size of SVC capacitor can also be reduced.
Keywords: Asymmetric Synchronous Reference Frame Controller (ASRFC); Harmonic Voltage Compensator (HVC); Electric Vehicles (EVs); Static VAR Compensator (SVC); Slide Mode Controller (SMC); Capacitor; Apparent power loss

Stefano Leonori, Elisa Mostacciuolo, Silvio Baccari, Francesco Di Luzio,
An advanced Li-ion cell equivalent circuit model using a neuro-physical approach,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 139, Part B,
2025,
118623,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2025.118623.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X25033365)
Abstract: The demand for energy-efficient systems in renewable energy and electric mobility has driven advancements in battery technology, particularly Li-Ion batteries, widely used in applications such as electric vehicles and smart grids. This paper proposes a novel hybrid approach combining an Equivalent Circuit Model (ECM) with ensemble feedforward Neural Networks (NNs) to model a battery cell. The electrical model used in this study features one RC-branch in a switched ECM configuration to adapt to different dynamics during charging and discharging and incorporates a snubber circuit to mitigate current spikes. Each parameter of the ECM is associated with a dedicated NN responsible for estimating its value, resulting in a total of seven NNs forming an Ensemble Neural Network (ENN) aligned with the discretized ECM. The NN estimates critical parameters, such as resistances and capacitors, in a physically interpretable space, ensuring that the model remains closely aligned with real-world components. The parameters of the ECM have been previously estimated by using an optimization procedure on real dataset, and the obtained values have been used as benchmark for the hybrid methodology. Simulation tests have been performed by varying the learning size and the batch size of the ENN. We present a comparison between traditional parameter estimation for standard ECMs and the proposed hybrid model. The hybrid approach, integrating NNs, demonstrates up to 50% improvement in the accuracy of the estimated voltage compared to the results obtained with the considered ECM. This study underscores the potential of combining advanced circuit design with machine learning to enhance the accuracy and reliability of battery management systems, pointing to a promising future for the field.
Keywords: Li-Ion cell model; Machine learning; Hybrid model; Neural networks; Equivalent circuit model; Multi-parameter optimization; Hybrid models

Robin Vujanic, Peyman Mohajerin Esfahani, Paul J. Goulart, Sébastien Mariéthoz, Manfred Morari,
A decomposition method for large scale MILPs, with performance guarantees and a power system application,
Automatica,
Volume 67,
2016,
Pages 144-156,
ISSN 0005-1098,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.automatica.2016.01.006.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0005109816000078)
Abstract: Lagrangian duality in mixed integer optimization is a useful framework for problem decomposition and for producing tight lower bounds to the optimal objective. However, in contrast to the convex case, it is generally unable to produce optimal solutions directly. In fact, solutions recovered from the dual may not only be suboptimal, but even infeasible. In this paper we concentrate on large scale mixed-integer programs with a specific structure that appears in a variety of application domains such as power systems and supply chain management. We propose a solution method for these structures, in which the primal problem is modified in a certain way, guaranteeing that the solutions produced by the corresponding dual are feasible for the original unmodified primal problem. The modification is simple to implement and the method is amenable to distributed computation. We also demonstrate that the quality of the solutions recovered using our procedure improves as the problem size increases, making it particularly useful for large scale problem instances for which commercial solvers are inadequate. We illustrate the efficacy of our method with extensive experimentations on a problem stemming from power systems.
Keywords: Optimization; Decomposition methods; Large-scale systems; Integer programming; Duality; Electric vehicles; Power-system control

Hengrong Zhang, Jing Qiu, Yunqi Wang,
A joint planning strategy for EV charging system towards net-zero transportation electrification,
Journal of Cleaner Production,
Volume 441,
2024,
141019,
ISSN 0959-6526,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2024.141019.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652624004669)
Abstract: Electric vehicles (EVs) are pivotal in the progression toward sustainable transportation. However, a growing body of recent studies has challenged the often-assumed notion that electric vehicles are often considered to be net-zero emissions. These studies suggest that electric vehicles could potentially generate substantial emissions due to their reliance on fossil fuels to generate electricity, especially when receiving fast charging services. This phenomenon has been mitigated with the use of renewable energy sources in the power system. However, due to the intermittent nature of renewable energy sources, additional requirements have arisen. To address this situation, this paper presents an interdisciplinary study of collaborative fast-charging stations (FCS) and distributed renewable energy planning based on the interactions between traffic and power networks in order to increase the adoption rate of electric vehicles and reduce emissions caused by traffic and power systems. The locations and sizing of fast-charging stations, distributed photovoltaic generation, and renewable energy power supply for electric vehicles are determined in the proposed strategy through multi-objective integer programming. The proposed planning strategy considers heterogeneous electric vehicle driving range constraints, the operation security of the power distribution system, the reliability and expansion of the current power distribution, as well as different types of air pollutant classifications resulting from the charging behaviors. To guarantee the feasibility and accuracy of the planning results, an interactive algorithm is applied to solve the multi-objective integer model. Several cases are conducted to validate the proposed approach. The results demonstrate that the proposed planning strategy has good performance in the planning of fast-charging stations and distributed renewable energy integration.
Keywords: Electric vehicle; Fast-charging station; Driving range constraints; Renewable energy; PV installation; Multi-objective planning model; Air pollutants; Emission constraints

Saeed Zeynali, Naghi Rostami, M.R Feyzi,
Multi-objective optimal short-term planning of renewable distributed generations and capacitor banks in power system considering different uncertainties including plug-in electric vehicles,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 119,
2020,
105885,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2020.105885.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061519330005)
Abstract: The increasing penetration of solar distributed generations (SDGs) and wind distributed generations (WDGs) together with plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) will lead to a promising amount of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Nevertheless, they bring about adversities such as uncertainty in production-load sides, augmented power loss, and voltage instability in the power system, which should be carefully addressed to increase the reliability. In this concern, this paper proposes a multi-objective optimization methodology for sizing and siting of SDGs, WDGs, and capacitor banks (CBs) in the power system considering uncertainties stemmed from PEVs load demand, solar irradiance, wind speed, and the conventional load. The understudy objectives are the voltage stability index, green-house gas emissions, and the total cost. An unconventional point estimate method (PEM) is used to handle the related uncertainties, and chance-constrained programming method is deployed to deal with smooth constraints. The corresponding probability distribution functions of output variables are estimated by the maximum entropy method. Furthermore, robustness analysis is made by Monte Carlo simulation (MCS). The proposed methodology is applied to a typical radial distribution network. The results show that the presence of PEV’s significantly increases the load demand, which results in voltage collapse in the distribution system without the presence of distributed generations. However, the proposed probabilistic method ensures the safe operation of the distribution system with the optimal allocation of renewable distributed generations and CBs. Moreover, the results of deterministic and probabilistic cases are compared under different penetration levels of PEVs. The best tradeoff solution of the Pareto front is selected by the fuzzy satisfying method.
Keywords: Renewable distributed generation; Point estimate method; Sizing and siting; Multi-objective optimization; Chance constrained programming

Ahmad Eid El-Iali, Moustapha Doumiati, Mohamed Machmoum,
Optimal sizing of the Energy Storage System for plug-in Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles, balancing costs, emissions and aging,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 92,
2024,
112095,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.112095.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X24016815)
Abstract: This research investigates the optimal sizing of the Energy Storage System (ESS) for Plug-in Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles (PFCEVs), taking into account technical, economic, and environmental challenges. The primary goal is to minimize both life cycle costs (LCC) and operational costs while simultaneously reducing CO2 emissions and preserving the durability of the power system. The PFCEV’s ESS comprises three core components: a battery, a proton-exchange membrane fuel cell (FC) system, and a supercapacitor (SC). Performance evaluation involves strict constraints on the vehicle’s operational parameters, and simulations are conducted following the Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule (UDDS). A notable contribution of this research is the implementation of a double-loop optimization technique using quadratic programming (QP) and a genetic algorithm (GA) to identify a feasible solution space that respects the specified constraints. In summary, the findings yield valuable insights and recommendations for the optimal sizing of PFCEV ESS. The comparative analysis conducted between different PFCEVs, Fuel Cell Vehicles (FCVs), and Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs), reveals that PFCEVs demonstrate distinct advantages. Finally, a sensitivity analysis concerning various hydrogen types shows a need for cost reduction in producing green hydrogen to improve its economic feasibility and operational efficiency.
Keywords: Electric vehicle; Sizing optimization; Energy management optimization; Hybrid energy storage durability; CO2 emissions reduction

Ziyou Song, Md Salman Nazir, Xiaofan Cui, Ian A. Hiskens, Heath Hofmann,
Benefit assessment of second-life electric vehicle lithium-ion batteries in distributed power grid applications,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 56, Part C,
2022,
105939,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2022.105939.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X22019272)
Abstract: Lithium-ion batteries in electric vehicles (EVs) are typically replaced after they lose about 20% of their capacity. With the rapid growth in EVs, there will be a tremendous potential to re-use the remaining EV battery capacities in power systems. Hence, this work focuses on capturing the economic benefits of using such second-life (SL) EV batteries. While previous works mainly focus on bulk storage applications, we demonstrate that the most beneficial route for SL batteries lies in distributed applications in power systems. Specifically, refurbishment and grouping of SL battery packs pose technical and operational challenges, thereby incurring significant costs and risks when large battery packs are adopted in bulk applications. Instead, when distributed at the residential and micro-grid level, such refurbishment costs and operation risks can easily be avoided as only small-size battery packs are required. An experimentally-validated model is incorporated to capture the battery capacity degradation and used to compare fresh batteries and SL-batteries. Using a model predictive control scheme and a 33-bus power network, the benefits of SL-batteries are quantified and verified.
Keywords: Second-life Batteries; Electric vehicles; Distributed power systems; Economic analysis

T.D. Suresh, M. Thirumalai, R. Hemalatha, Mohit Bajaj, Vojtech Blazek, Lukas Prokop,
Resilient VPP cost optimization in DER-driven microgrids for large distribution systems considering uncertainty during extreme events,
Energy Conversion and Management: X,
Volume 27,
2025,
101176,
ISSN 2590-1745,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecmx.2025.101176.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590174525003083)
Abstract: Frequent disruptions from extreme weather events pose a significant threat to modern power distribution systems. To enhance grid resilience, this study proposes a novel framework for the strategic placement of virtual power plants (VPPs) within interconnected microgrids (MGs), integrating diverse distributed energy resources (DERs) such as solar, wind, battery energy storage systems (BESS), and battery electric vehicles (BEVs). Utilizing a modified IEEE 118-bus radial distribution system (RDS), segmented into residential, commercial, and industrial zones, the black widow optimization (BWO) algorithm is employed to optimally size and site VPPs, minimizing operational costs and maximizing system resilience. Renewable energy uncertainty is modeled via the two-point estimation method, with performance assessed using key resilience metrics like energy not supplied (ENS) and load restoration index (LRI). Simulation results demonstrate the BWO-based strategy’s superior performance, reducing total objective cost to $2.54 million, outperforming genetic algorithm (GA) and particle swarm optimization (PSO) by 5.01% and 8.54% respectively. Furthermore, it achieves the lowest ENS, highest LRI across critical zones, and exhibits faster convergence with fewer fitness evaluations. This work highlights the significant potential of VPP-enabled MGs coupled with bio-inspired optimization to improve power system resilience under adverse conditions.
Keywords: Resilience metrics; Radial distribution systems; Virtual power plants; Microgrids; Battery energy storage systems; Distributed energy resources; Battery electric vehicles; Black window optimization algorithm

Y. Kongjeen, K. Bhumkittipich, N. Mithulananthan, I.S. Amiri, P. Yupapin,
A modified backward and forward sweep method for microgrid load flow analysis under different electric vehicle load mathematical models,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 168,
2019,
Pages 46-54,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2018.10.031.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779618303547)
Abstract: A power flow analysis under different electric vehicle (EV) load models based on the modified backward and forward sweep method is presented. Voltage-dependent loads (VDLs) were used to analyze the total power loss and load voltage deviation (LVD) under different EV load models and the general load of the electrical power system. The VDL was defined in the backward stage where the voltage ratio was between bus voltages per nominal voltage. The IEEE 33 bus radial distribution system was selected to be the test system. The EV penetration level was defined as 26.88% compared to the base case of constant power (P). The simulation results showed the impact levels from EV load models to the grid based on the traditional method, with impact levels from high to low being for polynomial load (EVI), constant current load (EVIII), and VDL (EVII) models, respectively. In particular, the highest impact for EVI was in scenario 4 (D), where the total active power loss, total reactive power loss, and LVD were 3.45%, 3.47%, and 3.36%, respectively. Therefore, the EV load model was one important factor to select for solving the power flow of the grid. Moreover, the position and size of the EV load could be considered in the optimal condition for reducing the impact to the grid. However, energy management will become a key challenge for supporting the high penetration of EVs in the near future.
Keywords: Electric vehicle; Exponential load; Modified backward–forward sweep method; Power system; Voltage-dependent load; ZIP

Reza Fachrizal, Mahmoud Shepero, Magnus Åberg, Joakim Munkhammar,
Optimal PV-EV sizing at solar powered workplace charging stations with smart charging schemes considering self-consumption and self-sufficiency balance,
Applied Energy,
Volume 307,
2022,
118139,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.118139.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030626192101415X)
Abstract: The integration of photovoltaic (PV) systems and electric vehicles (EVs) in the built environment, including at workplaces, has increased significantly in the recent decade and has posed new technical challenges for the power system, such as increased peak loads and component overloading. Several studies show that improved matching between PV generation and EV load through both optimal sizing and operation of PV-EV systems can minimize these challenges. This paper presents an optimal PV-EV sizing framework for workplace solar powered charging stations considering load matching performances. The proposed optimal sizing framework in this study uses a novel score, called self-consumption-sufficiency balance (SCSB), which conveys the balance between self-consumption (SC) and self-sufficiency (SS), based on a similar principle as the F1-score in machine learning. A high SCSB score implies that the system is close to being self-sufficient without exporting or curtailing a large share of local production. The results show that the SCSB performance tends to be higher with a larger combined PV-EV size. In addition to presenting PV-EV optimal sizing at the workplace charging station, this study also assesses a potential SC and SS enhancement with optimal operation through smart charging schemes. The results show that smart charging schemes can significantly improve the load matching performances by up to 42.6 and 40.8 percentage points for SC and SS, respectively. The smart charging scheme will also shift the combined optimal PV-EV sizes. Due to its simplicity and universality, the optimal sizing based on SCSB score proposed in this study can be a benchmark for future studies on optimal sizing of PV-EV system, or distributed generation-load in general.
Keywords: Photovoltaic systems; Electric vehicle charging; Workplace charging station; Optimal sizing; Smart charging; PV self-consumption

Aykut Fatih Güven,
A novel hybrid Salp Swarm Kepler optimization for optimal sizing and energy management of renewable microgrids with EV integration,
Energy,
Volume 334,
2025,
137696,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2025.137696.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544225033389)
Abstract: The rapid proliferation of renewable energy sources (RES) and electric vehicles (EVs) has introduced significant challenges in the optimal design and energy management of modern microgrids. This study presents a novel hybrid metaheuristic, the Salp Swarm–Kepler Optimization Algorithm (SSAKOA), which synergistically combines the global exploration capability of the Salp Swarm Algorithm with the orbital-based exploitation efficiency of the Kepler Optimization Algorithm. The proposed algorithm is first rigorously evaluated on a suite of 23 standard benchmark functions to validate its convergence behavior, robustness, and solution quality relative to established metaheuristics. Subsequently, SSAKOA is applied to a grid-connected hybrid renewable energy system comprising photovoltaic panels, wind turbines, battery storage, hydrogen subsystems (electrolyzers, hydrogen tanks, and PEM fuel cells), and bidirectional EV charging capabilities. The microgrid model incorporates realistic meteorological, demand, and tariff data over an annual cycle to simulate real-world conditions. Comparative results against nine state-of-the-art optimization algorithms demonstrate SSAKOA's superiority in minimizing the levelized cost of energy (LCOE), enhancing the renewable energy fraction (REF), reducing grid dependency, and significantly lowering CO2 emissions. These findings substantiate SSAKOA as an effective and scalable optimization framework for integrated energy systems with high RES and EV penetration, offering tangible benefits in cost-efficiency, reliability, and environmental sustainability.
Keywords: Microgrid optimization; Electric vehicles; Hybrid Salp Swarm Kepler optimization algorithm; Grid-to-vehicle; Vehicle-to-grid; Smart grids

Wonjong Lee, JongRoul Woo, Yong-gun Kim, Yoonmo Koo,
Vehicle-to-grid as a competitive alternative to energy storage in a renewable-dominant power system: An integrated approach considering both electric vehicle drivers' willingness and effectiveness,
Energy,
Volume 310,
2024,
133194,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2024.133194.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544224029694)
Abstract: Vehicle-to-grid (V2G) technology, which enables bidirectional power flow between electric vehicles (EVs) and power grids, is a possible solution for integrating EVs and renewable energy (RE) into the power system. While EV drivers are indispensable components for the V2G applications, the extant power system studies have underexamined the willingness of EV drivers to participate in V2G. In addition, few studies investigate whether the small-scale and time-varying V2G supply can replace utility-level energy storage. Given this background, this study combined discrete choice experiments with energy storage capacity expansion planning (ES-CEP) to simulate time-varying V2G participation and effectiveness. The choice experiments identified drivers’ preferences for V2G, which was used to simulate V2G participation under different compensation schemes. Time-varying V2G participation was integrated into ES-CEP for renewable-dominant power system to assess the potential of V2G to replace ES at the utility scale. The results showed that most drivers were unlikely to engage in V2G, although this reluctance decreased during the night. Higher guaranteed state-of-charge, accessible V2G facilities, and monetary enrollment compensation encouraged the participation. The ES-CEP results showed that, even with a limited V2G (4.5–15.3 % of EV drivers), V2G significantly reduced the optimal ES capacity (36.5–45.6 % for power and 39.6–60.6 % for energy), shaved peak netload by 18.5 %, and saved the total cost by 3.35 %, even after accounting for V2G enrollment compensation and battery degradation. EVs that charged during the daytime and participated in V2G at night were the most utilized, resulting in 0.92 % of annual battery aging, but generated a profit of 636,749 KRW (553 USD). The findings of this study underscore the importance of a suitable compensation scheme for V2G and supplementary measures for incentivizing EV charging during off-peak hours, as these elements are essential for the successful implementation of V2G.
Keywords: Electric vehicle; Vehicle-to-grid; Discrete choice experiments; Energy storage; Capacity expansion planning; Optimization

Ahmad K. ALAhmad, Renuga Verayiah, Saleh Ba-swaimi, Hussain Shareef, Azzam Abu-Rayash,
Optimal allocation and configuration of renewable energy sources, electric vehicle parking lots, and fixed and mobile batteries under uncertainty and demand response program,
Energy Conversion and Management: X,
Volume 26,
2025,
101041,
ISSN 2590-1745,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecmx.2025.101041.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590174525001734)
Abstract: The global transition to renewable energy sources (RESs) is critical for mitigating environmental pollution and reducing dependence on fossil fuels. However, the inherent intermittency of RESs presents significant challenges to power system stability, which are further exacerbated by the anticipated rise in electric vehicles (EVs), projected to exceed 130 million by 2030. To support this transformation, a robust energy infrastructure that integrates RESs, smart plug-in EV parking lots (PEV-PLs), energy storage systems (ESSs), and demand response programs (DRPs) is essential. This paper proposes a stochastic multi-objective mixed-integer nonlinear programming (MINLP) model for the optimal planning and operation of distribution systems (PDS) with increasing RES and EV penetration. The model incorporates wind and photovoltaic (PV) distributed generators (DGs), PEV-PLs, fixed and mobile battery energy storage systems (FBESSs and MBESSs), and DRPs. It optimally determines the sizing and placement of key components while strategically managing the relocation of MBESSs to minimize economic costs (investment, maintenance, and operation), environmental impacts (carbon emissions from the PDS), power losses, and voltage deviations. The model also accounts for major uncertainties, including EV charging behavior, wind speed, solar irradiation, load demand, and energy price fluctuations. The proposed framework is validated using the IEEE 69-bus test system, with nine configurations evaluated, ranging from a baseline (Case 1) to a fully integrated setup (Case 9). These cases include various combinations of RESs, PEV-PLs, FBESSs, MBESSs, and DRPs. The analysis underscores the importance of coordinated integration of RESs, storage, and DRPs to achieve environmental and operational benefits. Among the evaluated configurations, Case 7, which includes RESs, PEV-PLs, MBESSs, and DRP, emerges as the most balanced solution, achieving the lowest emission cost ($323,516.65/year), the highest loss reduction (39.60%), and the greatest voltage deviation improvement (41.14%). Case 3 excels in reducing operational costs (35.66%) and achieving the highest RES penetration (2.65 MVA), demonstrating the benefits of combining wind-PV DGs with a moderate EV fleet. In contrast, Case 9, despite incorporating the highest EV penetration (179 EVs) and the most comprehensive mix of technologies, underperforms economically due to system complexity, with only a 16.54% reduction in operational costs and a 1.23% increase in total cost. Overall, the results indicate that configurations that balance RES integration with moderate EV deployment and strategic energy storage, such as Cases 3 and 7, offer the most effective trade-offs between economic and environmental objectives.
Keywords: Power distribution system planning; Renewable energy sources; Plug-in electric vehicles parking lots; Fixed and mobile batteries; Demand response programs; Stochastic optimization

Sameer Algburi, Omer Al-Dulaimi, Hassan Falah Fakhruldeen, Shakhlo Isametdinova, I.B. Sapaev, Saiful Islam, Quadri Noorulhasan Naveed, Ayodele Lasisi, Israa alhani, Qusay Hassan, Doaa H. Khalaf, Michael Ssebunya, Feryal Ibrahim Jabbar,
Optimizing smart grid flexibility with a hybrid MINLP framework for renewable integration in urban energy systems,
Energy Reports,
Volume 14,
2025,
Pages 508-523,
ISSN 2352-4847,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2025.06.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352484725003853)
Abstract: Urban grids face the challenge of expanding renewable deployment while curbing emissions and minimizing the capital burden of network reinforcements, all of which depend on effective flexibility integration. A hybrid optimization framework is introduced, combining Mixed-Integer Nonlinear Programming with a reformulated MILP structure to jointly size photovoltaic systems, battery storage, staged network upgrades, and the dynamic participation of electric vehicles as both load and distributed storage. Thousands of EV constraints are consolidated through a polytope-based approach, and reinforcement costs are captured using a piece-wise linear model tailored to feeder capacity increments. Application to the Tuwaiq Smart City network, covering 3780 households, employs one-minute resolution data for 2024 to benchmark five operational schemes: No Flexibility, Demand Response, Smart Charging, Vehicle-to-Grid, and Integrated Decentralised Energy Management (IDEM). Compared with the baseline, IDEM achieves a 43.8 % reduction in annualised system cost, 46 % decrease in peak imports, and capacity cuts of 75 % and 82 % for PV and storage respectively, alongside a 65 % drop in grid integration expenses. A Monte Carlo test of 150 runs confirms cost stability within ±6 %, validating the robustness of layered flexibility under stochastic solar and mobility profiles. Solving across a full-year span is achieved within minutes on standard hardware, confirming the framework’s practical value for strategic energy planning
Keywords: Smart grid flexibility; Urban energy systems; Vehicle-to-grid integration; Renewable energy modeling; Electric vehicle charging optimization

Fakeha Sehar, Manisa Pipattanasomporn, Saifur Rahman,
Coordinated control of building loads, PVs and ice storage to absorb PEV penetrations,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 95,
2018,
Pages 394-404,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2017.09.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061517313716)
Abstract: Plug-in Electric Vehicles (PEVs) are active loads as they increase the distribution network’s demand during charging and can have potential impacts on the network. This study discusses the impact of PEV charging on a distribution feeder serving commercial customers and proposes a mitigation strategy to make PEV penetration transparent to the grid. The proposed strategy relies on coordinated control of major loads in demand responsive commercial buildings, ice storage, along with strategically deployed solar photovoltaic (PV). A real world electrical distribution feeder serving a number of commercial buildings is used for analysis purposes. Rather than looking at individual building’s economic benefits, the proposed approach considers overall technical and economic benefits of the whole distribution network, focusing on enhancing distribution-level load factor and reducing feeder losses. Results indicate that by performing load control in selected commercial buildings, along with utilizing capability of existing ice storage units and strategically deployed PV, the proposed approach can absorb 100% PEV penetration, and result in 13.4% decrease in the peak load; 10.9% improvement in the load factor; and 11.6% reduction in feeder losses. Sensitivity analysis shows that both load control and PV are needed to absorb any PEV penetration above 50% level.
Keywords: Smart grid; Distribution network; Photovoltaic; Ice storage; Demand responsive commercial buildings

L. Sigrist, E. Lobato, L. Rouco, M. Gazzino, M. Cantu,
Economic assessment of smart grid initiatives for island power systems,
Applied Energy,
Volume 189,
2017,
Pages 403-415,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2016.12.076.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261916318372)
Abstract: Islands are facing considerable challenges in meeting their energy needs in a sustainable, affordable and reliable way. The present paper develops an integrated approach to economically assess initiatives that can transform island power systems into smart ones. Single and multi-action initiatives fostering the deployment of renewable energy sources (RES), energy storage systems (ESS), demand-side management (DSM), and electric vehicle (EV) are considered. An hourly unit commitment on a weekly basis is proposed to assess the impact of the initiatives on the system operation costs of five prototype island power systems, which have been identified by applying clustering techniques to a set of sixty islands power systems. The different investment costs of the initiatives are accounted for determining their corresponding internal rate of return (IRR) through their lifetime. The economic assessment of single and multi-action initiatives for five prototype islands representing sixty island power systems quantifies which initiatives are most suitable for which type of island power system. The assessment shows that islands of different sizes and features require different initiatives. Larger islands tend to DSM initiatives, whereas smaller islands tend to RES initiatives. Multi-action initiatives achieve highest system operation cost reduction, whereas single action initiatives yield to highest IRR.
Keywords: Smart island; Unit commitment; Energy storage; Renewable energy sources; Demand side management; Electric vehicles

Mohammad H. Moradi, Mohammad Abedini, S.M. Reza Tousi, S. Mahdi Hosseinian,
Optimal siting and sizing of renewable energy sources and charging stations simultaneously based on Differential Evolution algorithm,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 73,
2015,
Pages 1015-1024,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2015.06.029.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061515002859)
Abstract: Electric Vehicles (EVs) are seen to have some negative impacts on microgrid performance, such as diminishing power quality and efficiency and increasing power losses, voltage variations and even customer energy prices. This paper proposes a new method for evaluating the effect of integrating a large number of EVs on a power system and their impact on the network voltage profile via injecting reactive power into highly-loaded buses. A multi-objective optimization problem is developed to obtain the optimal siting and sizing of charging stations and renewable energy sources (RES). The optimization problem focuses on reducing power losses, improving voltage stability of the system and reducing charging costs of EVs. In order to increase the network load factor some coefficients are introduced. Such coefficients, which depend on wind speed, solar irradiance and hourly peak demand ratio in the load characteristic of day-ahead, help aggregators to charge their EVs in off-peak hours. Differential Evolution (DE) algorithm is used for solving the optimization problem. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated for 69-bus and 94-bus microgrids.
Keywords: Differential Evolution algorithm; Electric vehicle charging stations; Renewable energy sources; Autonomous microgrid

Antonio Zecchino, Alexander M. Prostejovsky, Charalampos Ziras, Mattia Marinelli,
Large-scale provision of frequency control via V2G: The Bornholm power system case,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 170,
2019,
Pages 25-34,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2018.12.027.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779618304243)
Abstract: This paper assesses the impact of electric vehicles (EVs) providing primary frequency regulation via vehicle-to-grid (V2G) technology. The aim of the work is to define a set of recommendations in order to guarantee a stable large-scale deployment of EV fleets as primary reserve providers. A realistic fleet model is proposed, which emulates the aggregated response of a number of EVs characterized by V2G hardware response times derived in laboratory tests. The effects of primary frequency control via EV fleets replacing conventional generating units are assessed with a sensitivity study in a single-bus power system with growing fleet sizes and response times. Two recommendations are derived to guarantee safe and stable operation: Recommendation 1 requires the share of EVs providing primary reserve to be smaller than the reserve from conventional units; Recommendation 2 requires response times below a given limit value, calculated as a function of the following power system parameters: the system inertia, the total primary reserve over the rotating generation capacity, and the employed droop gain. The full 60 kV power system of the Danish island of Bornholm is then employed to evaluate the validity of the proposed requirements on a real system with complex dynamics, non-linearities and voltage dependencies.
Keywords: Electric vehicles; Electric vehicles aggregation; Frequency control; Frequency stability

Narjes Fallah, Colin Fitzpatrick,
Is shifting from Li-ion NMC to LFP in EVs beneficial for second-life storages in electricity markets?,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 68,
2023,
107740,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2023.107740.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X23011374)
Abstract: While electric vehicles are promising to reduce carbon emissions on the road, from a holistic life-cycle view, further environmental considerations in the production and end-of-life management of their batteries are required. Recently, circular end-of-life thinking has been promoted with strategies to increase retired batteries' lifetime through second-life as lifetime extension is typically favoured in life cycle assessment. However, standardization of these strategies toward recycling or repurposing paths is recommended for different Li-ion chemistries. This categorization mainly concerns the cobalt-containing cathode Li-ion batteries i.e., NMC which is the dominant technology for transportation, and the alternative technology i.e., LFPs with a more recent attention toward them in automobile sector due the cobalt scarcity in the supply chain. This technology shift will impact their end-of-life management at the retirement. In this arrangement, the economic priority of repurposing such battery chemistries needs quantification. This study evaluated the financial return of repurposing retired Li-ion NMC and LFP batteries for energy arbitrage applications in power systems. The feasibility of repurposing is examined in the Irish and Queensland's markets. Results show that retired Li-ion LFPs respond to price fluctuations more frequently with a higher financial return compared to NMCs; thus, they have higher potential for repurposing as such their greater integration in new vehicles is promising from a circular economy perspective. Different rates of return have been observed for various sizes of systems and battery durations. The financial benefits are more prominent for a one-hour battery in a medium system compared to half and two-hour durations and a smaller system. A sensitivity analysis shows that even spending the same capital cost as a new system for a repurposed system results in a marginal financial return in a competitive electricity market like Queensland's, whereas further incentives toward circular-enabling business models from local authorities will effectively make such investments feasible.
Keywords: Battery repurposing; Financial feasibility; Electric vehicles; Circular economy

Ziyou Song, Shuo Feng, Lei Zhang, Zunyan Hu, Xiaosong Hu, Rui Yao,
Economy analysis of second-life battery in wind power systems considering battery degradation in dynamic processes: Real case scenarios,
Applied Energy,
Volume 251,
2019,
113411,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.113411.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261919310852)
Abstract: Energy storage system plays an important role in modern power systems for mitigating the variation and intermittency of renewable energy sources. The Lithium-ion battery is currently the most widely used solution for energy storage system. However, its high cost is considered as one of the major barriers hampering the integration of renewable energy and the adoption of electric vehicles. Reusing electric vehicle batteries seems a promising solution to the aforementioned problem. Based on a dynamic degradation model of Lithium-ion batteries, this paper first compares the profits that second-life and fresh batteries can bring to the wind farm. Model predictive control is adopted to solve an hourly optimal wind scheduling problem and maximize the profit of wind farm owner. The optimal size of battery is determined and then the comparison of second-life and fresh batteries is conducted taking the battery degradation, the profit of the wind farm owner, and various remaining capacities of battery into account. Two case studies in USA and Denmark are conducted and the analysis shows that given the current prices of wind energy and Lithium-ion batteries, reusing batteries is not worthwhile for the studied wind farms, but it may outperform fresh batteries in the future if the wind energy price decreases much faster than the battery price.
Keywords: Lithium-ion battery; Battery degradation; Second-life battery; Fresh battery; Wind farm; Model predictive control

Raziye Aghapour, Mohammad Sadegh Sepasian, Hamidreza Arasteh, Vahid Vahidinasab, João P.S. Catalão,
Probabilistic planning of electric vehicles charging stations in an integrated electricity-transport system,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 189,
2020,
106698,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2020.106698.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779620305010)
Abstract: One of the most important aspects of the development of Electric Vehicles (EVs) is the optimal sizing and allocation of charging stations. Due to the interactions between the electricity and transportation systems, the key features of these systems (such as traffic network characteristics, charging demands and power system constraints) should be taken into account for the optimal planning. This paper addressed the optimal sizing and allocation of the fast-charging stations in a distribution network. The traffic flow of EVs is modeled using the User Equilibrium-based Traffic Assignment Model (UETAM). Moreover, a stochastic framework is developed based on the Queuing Theory (QT) to model the load levels (EVs’ charging demand). The objective function of the problem is to minimize the annual investment cost, as well as the energy losses that are optimized through chance-constrained programming. The probabilistic aspects of the proposed problem are modeled by using the point estimation method and Gram-Charlier expansion. Furthermore, the probabilistic dominance criteria are employed in order to compare the uncertain alternatives. Finally, the simulation results are provided for both the distribution and traffic systems to illustrate the performance of the proposed problem.
Keywords: Fast charging station; Queuing theory; Traffic assignment; Chance-constrained programming; Point estimation; Probabilistic dominance criteria

G. Ferro, R. Minciardi, L. Parodi, M. Robba,
Optimal planning of charging stations and electric vehicles traffic assignment: a bi-level approach,
IFAC-PapersOnLine,
Volume 53, Issue 2,
2020,
Pages 13275-13280,
ISSN 2405-8963,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2020.12.157.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S240589632030416X)
Abstract: A new bi-level approach is proposed for the location and sizing of charging stations, considering both the transportation and energy demands. The lower level considers the User Equilibrium traffic assignment conditions for Electric Vehicles (EVs) which are derived and inserted as constraints in the overall optimization problem. The higher level presents the formalization of an optimization problem for the optimal planning of locations, sizes and unit prices of a set of new charging stations in a territory characterized by the presence of an already existing set of charging stations. A case study in the Genoa Municipality is considered for the application of the proposed model.
Keywords: Electric vehicles; charging stations; optimization; User Equilibrium; smart grids; traffic assignment; energy demand assessment

Musa Terkes, Oktay Arikan, Erdin Gokalp,
The effect of electric vehicle charging demand variability on optimal hybrid power systems with second-life lithium-ion or fresh Na–S batteries considering power quality,
Energy,
Volume 288,
2024,
129760,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2023.129760.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544223031547)
Abstract: Second-life batteries (SLB) in energy storage systems (ESS) can provide an economical solution to hybrid power systems (HPS) by reducing environmental concerns in battery production. Could Na–S batteries be a suitable alternative for ESS applications if the toxicity problem can be solved? This article performs the optimal sizing and feasibility analysis of an electric vehicle charging station with a minimum cost objective under daily, hourly, and hybrid demand variability with multi-year sensitivity analyses for both ESS technologies. Moreover, the scope is deepened with sensitivity analyses based on solar horizontal irradiation, wind speed, and electricity selling prices. Due to the HPS connection to the distribution busbar, power quality issues are included in the cost-based optimization framework, and the effects of power quality issues on the sizing and feasibility outputs are compared at higher demand variability. The results show that using SLB at wind speeds lower than 4.7 m/s and irradiances lower than 3 kWh/m2/day or above 0.035 $/kWh electric sale price is not economical. Grid-connected HPSs can increase current and voltage harmonics at the distribution busbar by up to 55.3 % and 4.3 %, reduce the power factor by up to 46.8 %, and extend the payback period by up to 1 year.
Keywords: Electric vehicle charging; Hybrid power systems; Energy storage systems; Second-life battery; Na–S battery

Neelakantha Guru, Manas Ranjan Nayak, Ajit Kumar Barisal, Samarjit Patnaik,
A price-regulated scheduling of electric vehicle with grid supporting photovoltaic and battery storage,
e-Prime - Advances in Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Energy,
Volume 7,
2024,
100494,
ISSN 2772-6711,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prime.2024.100494.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772671124000767)
Abstract: With solar photovoltaic (PV) sources integrated into microgrids and electric vehicle (EV) charging stations, users have a variety of charging mode options to meet their needs. However, overloading of the distribution transformer, higher peak demand, and voltage instability are all potential drawbacks associated with EV charging loads. Microgrid optimisation becomes more difficult when dealing with intermittent PV generation and uncertain EV charging and discharging profiles. A Smart Home Energy Management System (SHEMS) is proposed for efficient power flow from PV sources, battery energy storage system (BESS), and an EV to maximise economic advantages for a consumer using the Artificial Hummingbird Algorithm (AHBA)-based optimisation approach. This approach considers the EV's unpredictable energy consumption, variations in residential load demand and seasonal variations in the solar insolation profile throughout the year. Consequentially, potential EV requirements such as initial and predetermined state of charge (SOC) arrangements and arrival and departure hours are also considered. Three energy management scenarios satisfying the allowable loading limit of the distribution transformer are examined, namely power transfers from home to electric vehicle (H2EV), EV to home (EV2H), and EV to grid (EV2G). The reduction in yearly operating costs (YOC) of 49.5 %, 53.2 %, and 70 % was achieved in H2EV, EV2H, and EV2G modes, respectively. This demonstrates that an effective EV and BESS management strategy can reduce the annual operating costs of a residential consumer by up to 70 % while simultaneously achieving peak load shaving.
Keywords: Electric vehicle (EV); Battery energy storage system (BESS); Smart Home Energy Management System (SHEMS); Photovoltaic (PV); Artificial Hummingbird Algorithm (AHBA)

Quan Li, Nan Zhao,
A probability box representation method for power flow analysis considering both interval and probabilistic uncertainties,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 142, Part B,
2022,
108371,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2022.108371.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0142061522003866)
Abstract: In the modern power system, the uncertainties such as renewable generation and electric vehicles are usually modelled as either interval or probabilistic variables for the power flow analysis. It is meaningful to study the mixed impacts of the interval and probabilistic variables on the power flow, but the existing methods considering the mixed impacts lack accuracy. This paper proposes a novel power flow analysis method considering both interval and probabilistic uncertainties, in which the probability box (P-box) model is established to investigate the power flow influenced by multi-type uncertainties. A probability-interval sample classification method combined with interpolation is proposed to achieve an accurate P-box representation of the power flow. Also, the correlation of uncertainties is fully considered where a novel extended optimizing-scenario method is proposed for obtaining the P-box model considering the multi-dimensional correlation of interval variables. Three test cases are carried out to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method. The P-box represented results clearly reflect the fluctuation range and the corresponding probability of the power flow. The specific influences of the sample size, correlation, capacity of multi-type uncertainties on the power flow and the P-box model are also determined and summarized.
Keywords: Uncertainty power flow analysis; Multi-type uncertainties; P-box representation; Correlated uncertainties

Kirti Pal, Kanika Verma, Rupika Gandotra,
Optimal location of FACTS devices with EVCS in power system network using PSO,
e-Prime - Advances in Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Energy,
Volume 7,
2024,
100482,
ISSN 2772-6711,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prime.2024.100482.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772671124000640)
Abstract: The appeal of Electric Vehicles (EVs) is steadily growing, driven by the numerous advantages they offer to both owners and the environment. However, this surge in EV adoption places an increasing demand on the power system network for electric charging. The consequential strain on the power system may lead to instability and potential contingencies within the network. To mitigate these challenges, this paper recommends the installation of Flexible AC Transmission System (FACTS) devices. Specifically, two types of FACTS devices, Static Var Compensator (SVC) and Thyristor-Controlled Series Capacitor (TCSC), are employed to enhance the stability and loading conditions of the power system network. The study focuses on an IEEE 39 bus system network chosen for the installation of Electric Vehicle Charging Stations (EVCS). The objective is to assess the maximum loading factor of each bus within the network. This paper introduces a methodology for determining the optimal locations for both EVCS and FACTS devices. Notably, a Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm is employed to optimize the size of FACTS devices and associated installation costs, ensuring an efficient and cost-effective enhancement to the power system's stability and loading conditions.
Keywords: Electric vehicle charging station; Thyristor controlled series compensator; Static VAR compensator; Loading factor; Particle swarm optimization

Cong Zhang, Jeffery B. Greenblatt, Max Wei, Josh Eichman, Samveg Saxena, Matteo Muratori, Omar J. Guerra,
Flexible grid-based electrolysis hydrogen production for fuel cell vehicles reduces costs and greenhouse gas emissions,
Applied Energy,
Volume 278,
2020,
115651,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.115651.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261920311491)
Abstract: Hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEVs) have been proposed as an option for lowering carbon dioxide (CO2) and pollutants emissions from the transportation sector, when implemented in combination with green hydrogen production methods such as water electrolysis powered by renewable electricity. FCEVs also have the added advantages of high specific energy density and rapid refueling, two important challenges that battery electric vehicles have not yet fully overcome. Moreover, flexible operation of electrolysis could support the grid and lower electricity costs. In this paper, we simulate time-varying FCEV hydrogen refueling demand for light, medium- and heavy-duty vehicles met using electrolysis systems distributed throughout the Western U.S. power system. We find that by oversizing electrolyzers the resulting load flexibility results in different hydrogen generation temporal profiles, average electricity costs, renewable curtailment levels, and CO2 emissions. Our results indicate that increasing hydrogen production flexibility lowers hydrogen and electricity generation cost and CO2 emissions, but there is a tradeoff between lowering operational cost and increasing electrolyzer capital cost, yielding a minimum total system cost at a size corresponding to between 80% and 90% annual capacity factor assuming a future electrolyzer cost of $300/kW.
Keywords: Hydrogen fuel cell vehicles; Electricity production cost model; Electricity; Power system optimization; Electrolysis; Medium- and heavy-duty transportation

Somayeh Hajforoosh, Mohammad A.S. Masoum, Syed M. Islam,
Real-time charging coordination of plug-in electric vehicles based on hybrid fuzzy discrete particle swarm optimization,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 128,
2015,
Pages 19-29,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2015.06.019.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779615001959)
Abstract: The main impact of uncoordinated plug-in electric vehicle (PEV) charging is adding new time-variant loads that can increase the strains on the generation units, transmission and distribution systems that may result in unacceptable voltage drops and poor power quality. This paper proposes two dynamic online approaches for coordination of PEV charging based on fuzzy genetic algorithm (FGA) and fuzzy discrete particle swarm optimization (FDPSO). The algorithms will minimize the costs associated with energy generation and grid losses while also maximizing the delivered power to PEVs considering distribution transformer loading, voltage regulation limits, initial and final battery state of charges (SOCs) based on consumers’ preferences. The second algorithm relies on the quality and speed of DPSO solution for more accurate and faster online coordination of PEVs while also exploiting fuzzy reasoning for shifting charging demands to off-peak hours for a further reduction in overall cost and transformer loading. Simulation results for uncoordinated, DPSO, FGA and FDPSO coordinated charging are presented and compared for a 449-node network populated with PEVs. Results are also compared with the previously published PEV coordinated charging based on maximum sensitivity selections (MSS). Main contributions are formulating the PEVs charging coordination problem and applying different optimization methods including online FGA and FDPSO considering different driving patterns, battery sizes and charging rates, as well as initial SOCs and requested final SOCs.
Keywords: Plug-in electric vehicles; Online PEV coordination; GA; DPSO; Fuzzy and smart grid

Hengrong Zhang, Jing Qiu, Yunqi Wang,
Planning strategy of fast-charging stations in coupled transportation and distribution systems considering human health impact,
International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,
Volume 133,
2021,
107316,
ISSN 0142-0615,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2021.107316.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S014206152100555X)
Abstract: The proliferation of the electric vehicles field brings attention to fast-charging station planning. Recently, some studies found electric vehicles that receive fast-charging service may also bring much air pollution due to fossil-fuel fired power generation. Hence, depending on the power generation mix, electric vehicles may have adverse environmental impacts. The current studies of fast-charging station planning only focus on power system planning and often ignore other parts of the transportation system such as internal combustion engine vehicles and gasoline stations. Moreover, most the current studies lack a comprehensive planning strategy for the fast-charging station that involves elements above simultaneously. In this context, an interdisciplinary study is implemented on the coordinated planning strategy of the fast-charging station in coupled transportation and power distribution systems. The proposed strategy with a multiple objective integer model can measure the impact of air pollutions from electric vehicles on air quality and human health in different areas. Considering the traffic flow assignment, the driving range logic constraints are used. The branch flow model is applied to power distribution systems. To measure the impacts of air pollutions on air quality and human health, the air pollution from the Road traffic model, the Gaussian Plum Model and the C-R function are adopted. Finally, numerical experiments are conducted to verify the proposed strategy and the mathematical model. The fast-charging station location and size can be determined by the mathematical model. The transition of gasoline station to fast-charging station is suggested according to the model as well.
Keywords: Fast-charging station; Gasoline station transition; Multi-objective coordinated planning; Human health impact

Chenour Ardalan, Vahid Vahidinasab, Amir Safdarian, Miadreza Shafie-khah, João P.S. Catalão,
Pave the way for sustainable smart homes: A reliable hybrid AC/DC electricity infrastructure,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 210,
2022,
108128,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2022.108128.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779622003479)
Abstract: The development of emerging smart grid technologies has led to more and more penetration of renewable energy resources and electric energy storage in the residential sectors. Besides, owing to the significant evolution of power electronic devices, there is a rapid growth in penetration of DC loads and generations, such as PV and electric vehicles (EVs), into the buildings and homes as a building block of the future smart cities. This is despite the fact that the electricity infrastructure of the conventional buildings is designed based on AC electricity and as a result, there would be a lot of losses due to the frequent power conversion from AC to DC and vice versa. Besides, according to a significant amount of energy consumption in the residential sector, buildings have a prominent role to confront environmental problems and obtain sustainability. In such circumstances, and considering the energy outlook, rethinking the electrification structure of the built environment is necessary. This work is an effort in this regard and looks for a sustainable energy infrastructure for the cyber–physical homes of the future. Three disparate electrification architectures are analyzed. The proposed framework, which is formulated as a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) problem, not only considers costs associated with investment and operation but also evaluates the reliability of each structure by considering the different ratios of DC loads. Moreover, the optimal size of renewable energy resources and the effect of EV demand response, and different prices of PV and battery are precisely investigated. The efficacy of the proposed approach is evaluated via numerical simulation.
Keywords: Smart homes; Reliability; Optimization; Renewable Energy Resources; Hybrid AC/DC; Electric vehicle; Mixed Integer Linear Programming

Miguel Campaña, Esteban Inga,
Optimal deployment of fast-charging stations for electric vehicles considering the sizing of the electrical distribution network and traffic condition,
Energy Reports,
Volume 9,
2023,
Pages 5246-5268,
ISSN 2352-4847,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2023.04.355.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352484723007205)
Abstract: The conventional vehicle fleet worldwide has contributed to the degradation of air quality due to CO2 emissions. Consequently, it has migrated from internal combustion to electric vehicles (EVs). However, it is essential to ensure the deployment of electric vehicle charging station infrastructures (EVCSI) to guarantee their interoperability for the development of electric mobility. Moreover, the sustainability of EVCSI depends not only on the capacity to meet demand but also on the adequate number of terminals in the different public charging stations (CS) to reduce waiting times for battery recharging. Then to achieve an optimal sizing of charging stations, it is crucial to foresee the maximum number of vehicles that could use the different CS during a time interval. The sizing of CS must respond to real mobility constraints and technical conditions, such as the capacity of vehicular flow, the capacity of the roads according to their geometry, the trajectories marked by the users, and the possible exit of operation of some CS. Therefore, this paper addresses the problem considering four fundamental axes, which are: stochastic analysis of heterogeneous vehicular flow, a solution to the transportation problem with the capacitated multicommodity flow problem and Hungarian algorithm, analysis of the optimal number of terminals considering loading times, and finally the proposed EVCSI will be validated using the CymDist software for electrical engineering. Consequently, the computational complexity of the model is of a combinatorial type and is defined as NP-hard given the multiple variables and constraints within the transportation problem.
Keywords: EV charging stations; Electrical distribution networks; Georeferenced systems; Vehicle flow paths; Optimization; Capacitated Multicommodity Flow Problem; Smart Grid; Smart City

T. Yuvaraj, R. Krishnamoorthy, S. Arun, Sudhakar Babu Thanikanti, Nnamdi Nwulu,
Optimizing virtual power plant allocation for enhanced resilience in smart microgrids under severe fault conditions using the hunting prey optimization algorithm,
Energy Reports,
Volume 11,
2024,
Pages 6094-6108,
ISSN 2352-4847,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2024.05.043.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352484724003214)
Abstract: The rapid expansion of renewable energy sources (RESs), such as photovoltaic (PV), wind turbine (WT), micro turbine (MT), and fuel cell (FC), has presented both opportunities and challenges to power systems, particularly in terms of environmental sustainability and economic feasibility. While RESs offer benefits like reduced environmental pollution, decreased power losses, and enhanced power quality, their intermittent nature and uncertainties pose challenges, resulting in variable generation and instability in distribution systems. To address these challenges, the concept of aggregating distributed energy resources (DERs), battery energy storage system (BESS), electric vehicles (EVs), and controllable loads into a virtual power plant (VPP) managed by an energy management system (EMS) has emerged. This study aims to determine the optimal location and size of VPPs within radial distribution system (RDS) while considering network resilience to severe weather events. The problem is formulated as an optimization task with dual objectives: minimizing the operating cost of VPPs and reducing energy not supplied (ENS) during natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes. To address this optimization problem, a novel meta-heuristic optimization algorithm called the hunting prey optimization algorithm (HPOA) is applied. HPOA serves various functions within the RDS, specifically targeting the optimization of VPP location, VPP resource management, and the objective functions. A case study is conducted, incorporating RESs, BESS, and EVs, and compared against existing algorithms such as BESA and SMA using a standard IEEE 85-bus RDS. Simulation results conducted in MATLAB demonstrate that the proposed HPOA algorithm effectively determines the optimal size and location of VPPs, leading to improved economic, operational, and resilience indices in the network.
Keywords: Resilience; Energy not supplied; Hunting prey optimization algorithm; Optimal allocation; Virtual power plant; Distributed energy resources; Renewable energy sources; Radial distribution system

Amit Kumar, Priyanka Raturi Semwal,
Strategic design of electric vehicle charging stations within power distribution networks,
e-Prime - Advances in Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Energy,
Volume 12,
2025,
100965,
ISSN 2772-6711,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prime.2025.100965.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772671125000725)
Abstract: For the optimal placement and distribution of EV charging stations, they must be integrated within the power distribution network more effectively. Several parameters are taken into account as part of this process, such as proximity to load centers, capacity of the power system, and traffic volume. The common charging station location distant from the load centers has been established to enhance the quality of power and reduce 5–10 % of distribution losses. Additionally, site location should also include the area land cost and this cost in the urban area is estimated to be about $500 to $2000 per square meter and other zoning regulations. In the design, the service radius of charging stations is also an important factor; Keeping the battery's DOD between 50 % and 70 % yields an estimated driving range of 150–200 km, which suggests a distance between stations of 50–70 km. In this case, the discount rate of 5 % can be adopted for O&M costs over the planning horizon of 20 years while the capital costs of provision of each station varies from $ 50,000 to $ 200,000 depending on the size of the station. The establishment of a large network for charging the EVs will enhance the power balance of the system thus reducing power losses whilst increasing the penetration of electric vehicles by integrating these numerical aspects together with technology and environmental considerations.
Keywords: Electric vehicle (EV); Charging stations; Power distribution networks; Optimization; Infrastructure planning

Omid Rahbari, Majid Vafaeipour, Noshin Omar, Marc A. Rosen, Omar Hegazy, Jean-Marc Timmermans, Seyedmohammadreza Heibati, Peter Van Den Bossche,
An optimal versatile control approach for plug-in electric vehicles to integrate renewable energy sources and smart grids,
Energy,
Volume 134,
2017,
Pages 1053-1067,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2017.06.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544217309982)
Abstract: This study proposes a practical solution to deal with challenges of integrating renewable energy sources and electric vehicles into the electric grid, considering generation source intermittency and energy usage inconsistency, via a new adaptive intelligent controller. The present research describes a smart grid consisting of power plants and distributed generation, fueled via photovoltaic panels and wind turbines, and augmented with electric vehicles as power storage devices. Employing a parking lot to deal with challenges such as low penetration of the electric vehicles embedded with Vehicle-to-Grid functionalities encounters two difficulties: where they should be installed, and modeling of bi-directional power flow between electric vehicles, the grid, and the distributed generation system. In this regard, a nonlinear multi-objective problem is designed and solved via employing the Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm-II, and the forward and backward substitution method. In addition, Newton-Raphson Power Flow is adopted and modified to calculate the power flow of the distribution network. The results related to optimal placement and sizing of hybrid renewable energy systems show that bus 16 of the studied grid is the best place to integrate a parking lot – equipped with 117 photovoltaic and 10 wind turbine units - to the tested IEEE-26 buses. Furthermore, this study suggests that the aforementioned grid could employ a complex versatile control unit able to optimize the operating point, scheduling charging and discharging for a large number of electric vehicles while considering the technical aspects (total active power loss and voltage deviation). In this regard, a new hybrid control approach based on Particle Swarm Optimization-Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference System tuned via utilizing the optimal power flow problem is proposed. The controller's superiority to handle grid-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-grid services is discussed and compared to other studies.
Keywords: Smart grid; Electric vehicle; Renewable energy sources; Distributed generation; PSO-ANFIS controller

Rui Xiong, Hongwen He, Fengchun Sun,
Methodology for Optimal Sizing of Hybrid Power System Usingparticle Swarm Optimization and Dynamic Programming,
Energy Procedia,
Volume 75,
2015,
Pages 1895-1900,
ISSN 1876-6102,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2015.07.177.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1876610215009455)
Abstract: A methodology for optimal sizing of hybrid battery-ultracapacitor power system (HPS) is presented. The purpose of the proposed methodology is to locate the optimal voltage levelfor HPS used in a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV). A combined optimization framework for a HPS is proposed and the optimization problem is solved in a bi-level manner. The framework contains two nested optimization loops. The outer loop evaluates the selected parameters throughparticle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm, while the inner loop generates the optimal control strategy and calculates the costs through dynamic programming (DP) algorithm. The Chinese Typical City Bus Drive Cycle (CTCBDC) has beenused to verify and evaluate the performance of the proposed methodology. The optimization result shows that higher voltage degree usually means better performance and the battery tends to provide a constant power for the HPS. It is noted that the constant powercloses to the high efficiency district of the battery and DC/DC convertor. After that the optimal result is further analyzed undervarious optimization goals andbattery charge/discharge current constrains.
Keywords: particle swarm optimization; dynamic programming; combined optimization; HPS; plug-in hybrid electric vehicle.

Sajjad Ahmad, Imran Raza, M. Hasan Jamal, Sirojiddin Djuraev, Soojung Hur, Imran Ashraf,
Central Aggregator Intrusion Detection System for Denial of Service Attacks,
Computers, Materials and Continua,
Volume 74, Issue 2,
2022,
Pages 2363-2377,
ISSN 1546-2218,
https://doi.org/10.32604/cmc.2023.032694.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1546221822005021)
Abstract: Vehicle-to-grid technology is an emerging field that allows unused power from Electric Vehicles (EVs) to be used by the smart grid through the central aggregator. Since the central aggregator is connected to the smart grid through a wireless network, it is prone to cyber-attacks that can be detected and mitigated using an intrusion detection system. However, existing intrusion detection systems cannot be used in the vehicle-to-grid network because of the special requirements and characteristics of the vehicle-to-grid network. In this paper, the effect of denial-of-service attacks of malicious electric vehicles on the central aggregator of the vehicle-to-grid network is investigated and an intrusion detection system for the vehicle-to-grid network is proposed. The proposed system, central aggregator–intrusion detection system (CA-IDS), works as a security gateway for EVs to analyze and monitor incoming traffic for possible DoS attacks. EVs are registered with a Central Aggregator (CAG) to exchange authenticated messages, and malicious EVs are added to a blacklist for violating a set of predefined policies to limit their interaction with the CAG. A denial of service (DoS) attack is simulated at CAG in a vehicle-to-grid (V2G) network manipulating various network parameters such as transmission overhead, receiving capacity of destination, average packet size, and channel availability. The proposed system is compared with existing intrusion detection systems using different parameters such as throughput, jitter, and accuracy. The analysis shows that the proposed system has a higher throughput, lower jitter, and higher accuracy as compared to the existing schemes.
Keywords: Denial of service attack; vehicle to grid network; network security; network throughput

Hassan Shavandi, Mehrdad Pirnia, J. David Fuller,
Extended opportunity cost model to find near equilibrium electricity prices under non-convexities,
Applied Energy,
Volume 240,
2019,
Pages 251-264,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.02.059.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030626191930354X)
Abstract: This paper finds near equilibrium prices for electricity markets with non-convexities due to binary variables, in order to reduce the market participants’ opportunity costs, such as generators’ unrecovered costs. The opportunity cost is defined as the difference between the profit when the instructions of the market operator are followed and when the market participants can freely make their own decisions based on the market prices. We use the minimum complementarity approximation to the minimum total opportunity cost model, from previous research, with tests on a much more realistic unit commitment model than in previous research, including features such as reserve requirements, ramping constraints, and minimum-up and -down times. The developed model incorporates flexible price-responsive demand, as in previous research, but since not all demand is price responsive, we consider the more realistic case that total demand is a mixture of fixed and flexible. Another improvement over previous minimum total opportunity cost research is computational: whereas the previous research had nonconvex terms among the objective function’s continuous variables, we convert the objective to an equivalent form that contains only linear and convex quadratic terms in the continuous variables, thus allowing for efficient optimization by CPLEX. We compare the unit commitment model with the standard social welfare optimization version of unit commitment, in a series of sensitivity analyses, varying flexible demand to represent varying degrees of future penetration of electric vehicles and smart appliances, different ratios of generation availability, and different values of transmission line capacities to consider possible congestions. The minimum total opportunity cost and social welfare solutions are mostly very close in different scenarios, except in some extreme cases; the obtained solution has smaller opportunity costs than social welfare, at very little cost in reduction of social welfare; and solution times of the minimum total opportunity cost model are longer, due to a larger model size, but the times are still very quick for practical use.
Keywords: Electricity markets; Uplift; Minimum complementarity; Minimum total opportunity cost

Ahmad Modarresi Ghazvini, Javad Olamaei,
Optimal sizing of autonomous hybrid PV system with considerations for V2G parking lot as controllable load based on a heuristic optimization algorithm,
Solar Energy,
Volume 184,
2019,
Pages 30-39,
ISSN 0038-092X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2019.03.087.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0038092X19303160)
Abstract: Hybrid energy systems such as PV-battery-diesel have been identified as an effective option to solve the power-supply problem and, therefore, the optimal sizing of such hybrid PV systems becomes important. Also, activities related to the demand side of the power system such as demand response programs are interested and, electric vehicle to grid (V2G) parking lot as a controllable load unit is recently used with demand response potential through charging and discharging V2Gs according to electricity price variations. The goal of this study is to develop and examine a heuristic optimization algorithm to solve the optimal sizing for hybrid PV-battery-diesel system with considerations for V2G parking lot as a controllable load. Simulation results show that utilization of V2G parking lot can reduce total cost for optimal sizing of hybrid PV-battery-diesel system by 5.21%.
Keywords: Optimal sizing; Hybrid PV system; V2G parking lot; Controllable load

Ziming Cai, Xiaohui Wang, Bingcheng Luo, Wei Hong, Longwen Wu, Longtu Li,
Dielectric response and breakdown behavior of polymer-ceramic nanocomposites: The effect of nanoparticle distribution,
Composites Science and Technology,
Volume 145,
2017,
Pages 105-113,
ISSN 0266-3538,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compscitech.2017.03.039.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0266353817302075)
Abstract: Polymer-ceramic nanocomposites play an essential role in the application of pulsed power system, due to their ultrahigh power density and fast charging–discharging capability. It is very promising for them to be applied in energy storage capacitors and hybrid electric vehicles for the recent progressing in the improving energy density. The volume fraction, morphology, size, aspect ratio and distribution of ceramic particles have been reported to have significant effect on the dielectric response and breakdown strength of nanocomposites, which are two main factors that determine the energy density of nanocomposites. In this study, we introduce a quantified method to describe the distribution of ceramic nanoparticles in polymer matrix, then focus on the effect of nanoparticles distribution on dielectric response and breakdown strength of nanocomposites through finite element method and phase field method. Results indicate that the non-uniform distribution of ceramic nanoparticles will aggravate the concentration of local electric field, thus slightly enhance the dielectric response but seriously decrease the breakdown strength of nanocomposites. To verify the size effect of ceramic particles on breakdown strength of nanocomposites, three types of well distributed nanoparticles with different diameter of particles have also been calculated using the same method.
Keywords: Distribution; Nanocomposite; Dielectric response; Breakdown strength; Size effect

Varaprasad Janamala, D Sreenivasulu Reddy,
Coyote optimization algorithm for optimal allocation of interline –Photovoltaic battery storage system in islanded electrical distribution network considering EV load penetration,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 41,
2021,
102981,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2021.102981.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X21006952)
Abstract: In current times, there is a need to do power system planning to endure situations of any kind. An islanding operation is one such unavoidable situation that may be required in many cases for both technical and economic reasons. First and foremost, this paper focuses on the determination of the best allotment of Interline-Photovoltaic (I-PV) system as per Electric Vehicle (EV) load penetration in the network. With different operational constraints, a multi-objective optimization using real power loss and voltage deviation index is formulated and solved using the Coyote Optimization Algorithm (COA).The paper highlights the computational efficiency of COA with Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) and Grey Wolf Optimizer (GWO), in addition to various literary works, and the results suggest the superiority of COA by its global optima. The required battery energy storage system (BESS) capacity for supplying an islanded network's entire load demand for a day is determined in the second stage. The simulations were carried out on the IEEE 33-bus electrical distribution network (EDN) contemplating different levels of EV load penetration. The proposed methodology results have proved that the required energy is provided by optimal I-PV-BESS backup for a daylong islanding operation and its adaptability for practical situations.
Keywords: Battery energy storage system; Coyote optimization algorithm; Electric vehicle load; Islanding operation; Multi-objective optimization; Solar photovoltaic system

R.B. Selvakumar, C. Vivekanandan, Himanshu Sharma, Vipul Vekariya, Raj A. Varma, V. Mohanavel, Govindaraj Ramkumar, A.S.Mahesh Kumar, M. Abdullah-Al-Wadud,
Energy management of a dual battery energy storage system for electric vehicular application,
Computers and Electrical Engineering,
Volume 115,
2024,
109099,
ISSN 0045-7906,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2024.109099.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790624000272)
Abstract: The advancement of energy vehicles has gained support among automotive firms as original equipment manufacturers have recently concentrated their efforts on creating greener propulsion options to satisfy social and ecological demands for clean transportation. In order to fulfil the constantly rising demands of vehicle applications, efficient hybrid energy storage system (HESS) looks to be extremely promising. Understanding how electrical energy storage solutions function is essential. A HESS made up of an active supercapacitor and battery has been proposed to enhance the performance of the electric vehicle power supply. These techniques enable increasing the HESS size or reducing the strains placed on the battery.To improve overall performance and efficiency, a fuzzy logic controller-based energy management method is comprehensively addressed. The suggested control and management technique makes sure that the battery meets the majority of the power demand on average while effectively managing the Supercapacitors' energy levels. To reallocate the necessary power, the SOC variation of the supercapacitor and battery creates imprecise rules. An assessment of the potential to more effectively coordinate the flow of energy in real-time while verifying the suggested energy management.
Keywords: Hybrid Energy storage system; Fuzzy logic; State of charge; Vehicular; Management

Bowen Zhou, Tim Littler, Lasantha Meegahapola, Huaguang Zhang,
Power system steady-state analysis with large-scale electric vehicle integration,
Energy,
Volume 115, Part 1,
2016,
Pages 289-302,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2016.08.096.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544216312099)
Abstract: It is projected that the electric vehicle will become a dominant method of transportation within future road infrastructure. Moreover, the electric vehicle is expected to form an additional role in power systems in terms of electrical storage and load balancing. This paper considers the latter role of the electric vehicle and its impact on the steady-state stability of power systems, particularly in the context of large-scale electric vehicle integration. The paper establishes a model framework which examines four major issues: electric vehicle capacity forecasting; optimization of an object function; electric vehicle station siting and sizing; and steady-state stability. A numerical study has been included which uses projected United Kingdom 2020 power system data with results which indicate that the electric vehicle capacity forecasting model proposed in this paper is effective to describe electric vehicle charging and discharging profiles. The proposed model is used to establish criteria for electric vehicle station siting and sizing and to determine steady-state stability using a real model of a small-scale city power system.
Keywords: Capacity forecasting; Electric vehicle (EV); Siting and sizing; Steady-state analysis

B. Mohajer k., S.M. Mousavi G.,
Energy management optimization in smart railway stations with the ability to charge plug-in hybrid electric vehicles,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 70,
2023,
107867,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2023.107867.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X23012641)
Abstract: The increasing development of traffic in the world has led to an increase in the consumption of electrical energy in electric vehicles (EVs). One of the most widely used electric vehicles is the electric train. Thus, energy optimization becomes more crucial in electrical railways to reduce consumption and total electricity bill as well as environmental issues. Consequently, electrical railway energy management must be technically and economically efficient and effective. This paper proposes an energy efficiency optimization framework for intelligent railway stations that provide plug-in electric vehicle charging parking capacity use, renewable energy sources (REs), and regenerative braking energy (RBE). The structure of the proposed convex programming (CP) model is used for fast and efficient optimization of decision variables, Equipment size, and the cost function of the station for reducing the power purchased from the Grid. Furthermore, by presenting meta-heuristic algorithms, the state variables of the energy storage system (ESS) and Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) battery have been optimized. The results obtained from the proposed method prove that the operation cost of the station decreases by 61.4 %.
Keywords: Smart grid; Regenerative braking energy; Energy management; Optimization methods; Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles

Koen van der Horst, Ibrahim Diab, Gautham Ram Chandra Mouli, Pavol Bauer,
Methods for increasing the potential of integration of EV chargers into the DC catenary of electric transport grids: A trolleygrid case study,
eTransportation,
Volume 18,
2023,
100271,
ISSN 2590-1168,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.etran.2023.100271.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590116823000462)
Abstract: The traction substations of urban electric transport grids are oversized and underutilized in terms of their capacity. While their over-sizing is an unfortunate waste, their under-utilization creates the major hurdle for the integration of renewables into these grids due to the lack of a base load. Therefore, integrating smart grid loads such as EV chargers is not only an opportunity but a necessity for the sustainable transport grid of the future. This paper examines six methods for increasing the potential of EV chargers in three case studies of a trolleygrid, namely a higher substation no-load voltage, a higher substation power capacity, a smart charging method, adding a third overheard parallel line, adding a bilateral connection, and installing a multi-port converter between two substations. From the case studies, the most promising and cost-effective method seems to be introducing a bilateral connection, bringing a charging capacity for up to 175 electric cars per day. Meanwhile, other costly and complex methods, such as smart charging with grid state sensors and communication, can offer charging room for over 200 electric cars per day. Furthermore, using solar PV systems to power the grid showed a more than doubling of the directly utilized energy by installing a 150kW charger, from 19% to 41%. This reduces the power mismatch between the trolleygrid and the PV system from 81% to 59% and thereby reduces the severe economic need for storage, AC grid power exchange, or PV power curtailment while allowing a high penetration of renewables.
Keywords: DC grids; EV chargers; PV system; Transportation; Trolleygrids

Anup Kumar Mahto, Md. Abul Kalam, Kaushik Paul,
A novel hybrid Harris hawk optimization-sine cosine algorithm for the influence of electric vehicle and renewable energy sources in power system distribution network,
Franklin Open,
Volume 13,
2025,
100401,
ISSN 2773-1863,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fraope.2025.100401.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2773186325001896)
Abstract: The stochastic behavior of renewable energy sources (RES) and electric vehicle (EV) loads can compromise power system reliability by affecting power quality, increasing losses, and causing voltage deviations. Mitigating these impacts requires optimal planning that accounts for RES variability and additional EV charging demand. This paper presents a novel approach for the simultaneous optimal allocation and sizing of RES and EV charging stations, along with coordinated management of the charging process. A multi-objective optimization problem is formulated to minimize power losses, voltage fluctuations, charging and supply costs, and EV battery costs. The model incorporates coefficients based on wind speed, solar radiation, and hourly peak demand to manage EV charging during off-peak hours. A hybrid Harris Hawk Optimization–Sine Cosine Algorithm (HHO-SCA) is proposed to develop a meta-heuristic-based RES and EVs charging system. By integrating SCA features into HHO, the algorithm enhances exploration and exploitation capabilities, thereby improving global search efficiency and optimizing energy usage. The performance of HHO-SCA has been validated on benchmark functions. The HHO-SCA is employed to solve the proposed optimization problem across five scenarios. Its effectiveness for simultaneous optimal siting and sizing of RES and EV charging stations is validated on the IEEE 33 and 69 bus system. Results indicate that HHO-SCA outperforms other methods by effectively avoiding local optima and exhibiting superior convergence behavior.
Keywords: Electric vehicle; Renewable energy; Power quality improvement; Microgrid; Radial distribution system; Optimization

Krzysztof Zagrajek, Mariusz Kłos, Jarosław Korzeb, Karol Pawlak,
Technical and economic sizing of custom electric vehicles with mobile electricity storage facilities for the provision of energy services in urban areas,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 106,
2025,
114909,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.114909.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X24044955)
Abstract: Nowadays, one of the most popular trends in the energy transition is the use of battery energy storage systems (BESS) in order to improve the energy efficiency and reliability of renewable energy sources (RES), while increasing energy security. However, it should be remembered that in highly urbanized environments, it is not always possible to install them in sites, mainly for fire safety reasons. As an alternative solution, the supply of electricity through mobile electricity storage facilities (MESF) can be used. Therefore, this article proposes the concept of custom electric vehicles (CEV) carrying additional battery packs with specified capacities. CEVs were divided into three categories, depending on the size of such a vehicle. In the main part of the research, optimization of the capacity of batteries acting as MESF was performed, taking into account constraints related to the vehicle's payload, the cost of batteries and the feasibility of energy services. These services were provided for a designated urban area, in which CEVs provided backup power supply services and optimization of the self-consumption rate. The results indicate that CEVs with a battery capacity of about 100 kWh should be built for vehicles with a payload of up to 700 kg. For vehicles with a payload of up to 1000 kg and a gross vehicle weight of no more than 3.5 t, mobile energy storage facilities will have a capacity of about 150 kWh, while for heavy-duty vehicles the results indicate the installation of MESFs with a capacity of 800 kWh. A major limitation, however, proved to be the cost of batteries for MESFs, which is assumed not to exceed the cost of purchasing a vehicle. Taking into account the aforementioned capacities, it is possible to provide enough electricity to partially balance urban consumers using CEVs with additional battery packs.
Keywords: Electric vehicles; Mobile electricity storage facilities; Smart grid; Battery energy storage systems; Flexibility services

Justin D.K. Bishop, Colin J. Axon, David Bonilla, David Banister,
Estimating the grid payments necessary to compensate additional costs to prospective electric vehicle owners who provide vehicle-to-grid ancillary services,
Energy,
Volume 94,
2016,
Pages 715-727,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2015.11.029.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544215015649)
Abstract: The provision of ancillary services in the smart grid by electric vehicles is attractive to grid operators. Vehicles must be aggregated to meet the minimum power requirements of providing ancillary services to the grid. Likely aggregator revenues are insufficient to cover the additional battery degradation costs which would be borne by an existing electric vehicle owner. Moreover, aggregator revenues are insufficient to make electric vehicles competitive with conventional vehicles and encourage uptake by prospective consumers. Net annual costs and hourly compensation payments to electric vehicle owners were most sensitive to battery cost. The fleet provided firm fast reserve from 1900 h for 0.42 h, up to 2.7 h in the best cases. At best, likely aggregator revenue was 20 times less than the compensation required, up to 27,500 times at worst. The electric vehicle fleet may not be large enough to meet the firm fast reserve power and duration requirements until 2020. However, it may not be until 2030 that enough vehicles have been sold to provide this service cost-effectively. Even then, many more electric vehicles will be needed to meet the power level and duration requirements, both more often and for longer to enable participation in an all-day, everyday ancillary services market.
Keywords: Electric vehicles; Lithium batteries; Vehicle-to-grid; Ancillary services; Battery degradation

Aswin Dilip Kumar, Jitendra Gupta, Bhim Singh,
Switched capacitor and coupled inductor based high power factor charger for E-2/E-3 wheelers,
e-Prime - Advances in Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Energy,
Volume 9,
2024,
100652,
ISSN 2772-6711,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prime.2024.100652.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772671124002328)
Abstract: This paper introduces a modified Zeta converter topology designed specifically for charging low voltage electric vehicles (LVEVs), enhancing performance for electric two (E-2) and electric three (E-3) wheelers. Unlike traditional Zeta converter, which offers buck-boost gain, an AC-DC converter in this study, utilizes a switched capacitor configuration to efficiently step-down voltage in a single phase, bridging the gap between the AC grid and low potential battery assemblies. This design incorporates a coupled inductor structure and operates in discontinuous inductor current mode (DICM), reducing the size of magnetic components and overall dimensions of converter and power factor correction (PFC) rectifier. DICM operation provides intrinsic PFC and minimizes switching losses, ensuring exceptional grid-side performance with unity power factor and minimal input current harmonic distortions, while maintaining an optimal battery charging profile. The meticulously developed hardware prototype, rated at 450 W, features precise component selection and carefully designed modes of operation. Performance analysis reveals a converter peak efficiency of 94.7 %, total harmonics distortion (THD) in input current at 2.7 % under rated conditions, and near unity power factor with zero phase displacement between input voltage and current.
Keywords: Electric vehicle charging infrastructure; Switched capacitor structure; Coupled inductors; Intrinsic Power Factor Correction, Magnetic Component Sizing

Yanjun Huang, Soheil Mohagheghi Fard, Milad Khazraee, Hong Wang, Amir Khajepour,
An adaptive model predictive controller for a novel battery-powered anti-idling system of service vehicles,
Energy,
Volume 127,
2017,
Pages 318-327,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2017.03.119.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S036054421730511X)
Abstract: This paper presents an anti-idling regenerative auxiliary power system for service vehicles. The energy storage system in the regenerative auxiliary power system is able to electrify the auxiliary systems so as to achieve anti-idling. Service vehicles (e.g. delivery trucks or public buses) generally have predetermined routes, thus it is feasible and profitable to utilize a model predictive control strategy to improve the fuel economy of the new powertrain. However, the mass/load of such service vehicles is time-varying during a drive cycle. Therefore, an adaptive model predictive controller should be designed to account for this variation. Although the drive cycle is preset, it would experience uncertainties or disturbances caused by traffic or weather conditions in real situations. To deal with this problem, a large step size prediction method is used in the adaptive model predictive algorithm to enhance its robustness. The proposed algorithm is compared to a prescient model predictive controller in different scenarios to demonstrate its applicability and optimality (more than 7% fuel savings). The proposed approach is independent of the powertrain topology such that it is able to be directly extended to other types of hybrid electric vehicles.
Keywords: Anti-idling; Adaptive model predictive controller; Electrification of automotive auxiliary systems; Kalman filter

Abdullah S. Bin Humayd, Kankar Bhattacharya,
Distribution system planning to accommodate distributed energy resources and PEVs,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 145,
2017,
Pages 1-11,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2016.12.016.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779616305296)
Abstract: With deregulation of the power industry, environmental policy changes, advancements in technology, and the transformation to smart grid, the distribution planning paradigm has gone through significant changes in recent years. Concurrently, with increase in gas prices, driven by a foreseeable fossil fuel depletion in the future, developments in the automotive sector, and environmental concerns, penetration of plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) has been increasing. These changes will continue to drive the distribution planning problem to evolve in the coming years. This paper presents a comprehensive long-term distribution planning framework from the perspective of local distribution companies (LDCs) considering distributed generation (DG), substations, capacitors, and feeders. Apart from considering the usual demand profile, the proposed framework considers uncontrolled and controlled (smart) PEV charging demand, as well as demand response (DR) options. Based on a back-propagation algorithm combined with cost-benefit analysis, a novel approach is proposed to determine the optimal upgrade plan, allocation, and sizing of the selected components in distribution systems, to minimize the total capital and operating cost. A new iterative method is proposed which involves post-processing the plan decisions to guarantee acceptable adequacy levels for each year of the planning horizon. The performance of the proposed framework is examined considering several case studies on the 33-bus and 69-bus test systems. It is noted from the studies that the presence of uncontrolled PEV charging loads results in much higher plan costs as compared to the case without PEVs, impacts the distribution plan significantly, and hence these loads indeed need be considered in the planning process. On the other hand, smart charging of PEVs have a much reduced impact on the plan cost, and helps alleviate some investments which were needed with uncontrolled charging PEVs. Therefore, the LDCs and policy makers need to encourage customers to adapt these options in the long-run.
Keywords: Distributed generation; Distribution planning; Local distribution company; Plug-in electric vehicles; Demand response

Ali Peivand, Ehsan Azad-Farsani, Hamid Reza Abdolmohammadi,
Wind curtailment mitigation in presence of battery energy storage and electric vehicle: A comprehensive multi-objective decision-support framework,
Journal of Cleaner Production,
Volume 412,
2023,
137215,
ISSN 0959-6526,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2023.137215.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652623013732)
Abstract: Concern to maintain exploitation of power system in secure mode, the wind curtailment (WR) caused by the perpetual fluctuating of wind power (WP) can menace the operational power system schedule. The mentioned phenomenon will intensify by high WP penetration into the power system. In addition, incorporating plugged-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) into the power system along with the WP intermittent will increase the vagueness rating of the problem. Due to the expansion and development of battery energy storage (BES), the possibility of power shortage compensating and accumulating additional power produced by wind farms (WFs) has been engendered. Providing a stochastic scenario-based structure with different correlation levels can increase the robustness of the model. Here, a two-stage model has been proposed to overcome such a high-dimensioned problem. The first stage determined the scheduled power output of thermal generators (TGs) as the unit commitment (UC) problem to minimize operational costs. Next, by reckoning the supplementary constraints, the scheduled WP, which is re-optimized, will be obtained. The second stage has employed to detect the BES capacity. In this stage, the intelligent parking lots (IPLs) assign price-based signal impetus to the PHEVs to participate in economic dispatch. Due to the prominence of being equipped with the supreme decision-making facility for the intelligent decision-maker operator (IDMO), the augmented epsilon-constraint method has been employed to capture the Pareto sets of some multi-objective functions. The optimum solution has been selected by the decision-making method (DMM) according to the operator's preferences. The results of proposed Multi-Objective Decision-Support (MODS) model show that the total operation cost and BES sizing have dropped by 68 and 6.1 percent, respectively. The performance of the proposed model has been testified through the IEEE-30 bus system via GAMS software.
Keywords: Comprehensive multi-objective decision-support framework; Wind curtailment; Battery energy storage; Plugged-in hybrid electric vehicle; Augmented epsilon-constraint method

Raji Atia, Noboru Yamada,
More accurate sizing of renewable energy sources under high levels of electric vehicle integration,
Renewable Energy,
Volume 81,
2015,
Pages 918-925,
ISSN 0960-1481,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2015.04.010.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960148115002906)
Abstract: Electric vehicles (EVs) and distributed generation are expected to play a major role in modern power systems. Although many studies have introduced novel models to integrate distributed generation into high levels of EV-adoption scenarios, none has considered EV-embedded battery performance degradation and its economic effect on system planning. Based on well-established models and data to emulate the capacity fading of lithium-ion batteries, the current work presents a mixed-integer linear programming optimization framework with decision variables to size renewable energy resources (RESs) in modern microgrids. The objective function aims to minimize the total cost of the system while guaranteeing a profitable operation level of vehicle-to-grid (V2G) application, narrowing the gap between design stage and real-life daily operation patterns. Stochastic modeling is used to incorporate the effect of different uncertainties involved in the issue. A case study on a residential system in Okinawa, Japan, is introduced to quantitatively illustrate how a profitable V2G operation can affect RES sizing. The results reveal that accounting for the economic operation of EVs leads to the integration of significantly higher capacities of RESs compared with a sizing model that excessively relies on V2G and does not recognize battery-fading economics.
Keywords: Electric vehicle; Lithium-ion battery; Distributed generation; Battery fading; Optimization

M.S. ElNozahy, Tarek K. Abdel-Galil, M.M.A. Salama,
Probabilistic ESS sizing and scheduling for improved integration of PHEVs and PV systems in residential distribution systems,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 125,
2015,
Pages 55-66,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2015.03.029.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779615000966)
Abstract: Environmental concerns and oil price volatility have created increased interest in smart grid green energy technologies such as photovoltaic (PV) arrays and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs). However, these technologies have been found to have a significant impact on distribution networks in terms of secondary distribution transformer overloading and increased reverse power flow. Energy storage systems (ESSs) are thought to be an effective tool for mitigating these negative effects. The primary challenge in implementing ESS technology lies in the difficulty of determining the appropriate sizes and operating schedules for these units, given the uncertainties inherent in PV array production and PHEV demand. This paper presents a probabilistic sizing and scheduling methodology for ESSs to facilitate the integration of PHEVs and PV arrays in distribution networks, taking into account different sources of uncertainty present in the system. The technical and economic feasibility of the proposed design methodology has been validated using Monte Carlo (MC) simulations for a variety of scenarios.
Keywords: Battery energy storage systems; Monte Carlo Simulation; Photovoltaic; Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles; Probability; Reverse power flow

Jean-Michel Clairand, Mario González-Rodríguez, Rajesh Kumar, Shashank Vyas, Guillermo Escrivá-Escrivá,
Optimal siting and sizing of electric taxi charging stations considering transportation and power system requirements,
Energy,
Volume 256,
2022,
124572,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2022.124572.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S036054422201475X)
Abstract: Electric vehicles (EVs) have become more popular to address transportation-related environmental concerns. However, to integrate a massive fleet of EVs, it is crucial to properly build charging stations by considering the optimal geographical placement and number of charging spots. This task is particularly challenging for users with rigid schedules such as taxi drivers. Hence, an optimal siting and sizing approach for an electric taxi (ET) charging station is proposed in this study, considering both transportation and power system needs. In addition, particular attention to taxi drivers' needs is considered. Fixed installation costs, land costs, and trip costs are the factors evaluated in this proposed approach. A network modeling approach based on a winner-takes-all edge trimming was used to identify interest points of the city in terms of traffic flows. Ecuador's capital, Quito, was considered a case study. A sensitivity analysis was also carried out to address traffic flow uncertainties such as trip expenses and restrictions.
Keywords: Charging station; Electric vehicle; Power distribution systems; Siting and sizing; Transportation network

T. Yuvaraj, M. Thirumalai, T.D. Suresh, Sudhakar Babu Thanikanti, Mohammad Khishe,
Dynamic optimization of solar DG and shunt capacitor placement to mitigate the impact of EV charging stations on power distribution network,
Results in Engineering,
Volume 27,
2025,
106804,
ISSN 2590-1230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2025.106804.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590123025028683)
Abstract: The sudden surge in electric vehicle (EV) adoption has significantly increased electricity demand, posing new challenges for radial distribution networks (RDNs). The large-scale deployment of electric vehicle charging stations (EVCS) introduces operational issues such as elevated power losses, voltage instability, and line overloading, thereby testing the grid's robustness and efficiency. To address these challenges, this research proposes a novel optimization framework that integrates the quasi-refined slime mould algorithm (QRSMA) with conventional slime mould algorithm (SMA), particle swarm optimization (PSO), and genetic algorithm (GA) techniques for the optimal placement of solar-based distributed generators (SDGs) and shunt capacitors (SCs). The proposed method aims to minimize a multi-objective function incorporating real and reactive power losses, voltage deviation, and voltage stability, thereby enhancing the stability and reliability of RDN operations. The framework employs stochastic modeling based on four years of hourly meteorological data to account for uncertainties in solar irradiance and temperature. Additionally, the EVCS model includes dynamic operational aspects such as mean queue lengths, waiting times, and demand response (DR) load control. The methodology is validated using both a practical Indian 28-bus RDN and the large-scale IEEE 118-bus system to assess scalability and generalizability. Simulation results confirm the superior performance of QRSMA in improving voltage profiles, reducing power losses, and achieving better computational efficiency compared to conventional optimization algorithms. Sensitivity analyses further demonstrate the robustness of QRSMA under varying objective priorities. Moreover, the economic assessment using the levelized cost of energy (LCOE) indicates strong financial viability for real-world implementation. This work underscores the importance of coordinated planning of SDGs and SCs to mitigate EVCS-induced challenges and provides a scalable, efficient solution for modern, EV-integrated smart grids.
Keywords: Electrical vehicle; Quasi-reflection-based slime mould algorithm; Solar distributed generation; Shunt capacitor; Levelized cost of energy; Multi-objective function; EV charging station; Radial distribution network

Osama M. Abdelwahab, Ahmed A. Shalaby, Mostafa F. Shaaban,
An optimal resource allocation for future parking lots with charger assignment considering uncertainties,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 200,
2021,
107455,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2021.107455.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779621004363)
Abstract: This paper proposes a new planning approach for different types electric vehicle (EV) chargers’ allocation in conjunction with photovoltaic (PV) panels. The proposed approach helps to upgrade the infrastructure satisfying the demand for high penetration of EVs with least expansion cost. This approach proposes a routing signal for the arriving EV at the parking lot to guide them to a suitable charger according to the charger and EV battery statuses. The proposed signal increases the utilization EV chargers. Also, the planning approach jointly considers the PV allocation to provide more energy and power capacity for chargers and to reduce overall energy cost. This proposed approach considers coordinated charging /discharging, creating bidirectional power flow between the grid and the EVs. The planning problem is formulated as a mixed-integer nonlinear program to maximize the net annual revenue. A Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulation technique is utilized to account for the uncertainties associated with the PV generation and the power demand. The outcome of the approach can be described as the optimal quantity and types of EV chargers, along with the optimal sizing of the allocated PV panels. A Multi-case simulation is done to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Keywords: Distributed generation; Electric vehicles; Photovoltaic; Smart grid; Smart parking lot

Hamid R. Sayarshad,
Integrating renewable energy and electric vehicle participation in regulation markets for empowering grid stability,
Energy Conversion and Management,
Volume 342,
2025,
120041,
ISSN 0196-8904,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2025.120041.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0196890425005655)
Abstract: This study presents a framework examining the interaction between electric vehicle aggregators, power systems, and electric vehicle participation in regulation markets. The impact of renewable energy sources, specifically wind and solar, on the stability of the grid is examined. These sources play a crucial role in supporting the charging of electric vehicles, facilitating the integration of renewable energy into the electricity distribution infrastructure. This study proposes dynamic bidding strategies for day-ahead electricity markets, focusing on optimizing bid quantities and pricing for charging and vehicle-to-grid initiatives, ultimately improving financial outcomes while meeting grid requirements. Furthermore, this work improves the optimization of power flows within the distribution network for regulatory purposes, ensuring both grid stability and the mobility needs of electric vehicles. It also evaluates the total costs associated with the use of electric vehicles for frequency regulation, including energy usage and the impact on battery life. The effectiveness of the model is evaluated through three case studies in which the numerical results highlight its ability to determine the electrical capacity required for electric vehicles during both the up- and down-regulations. This study introduces a model that employs a fleet of 12,991 vehicles for load regulation down and 9574 vehicles for load regulation up, successfully managing loads with only 899.26 MW load shedding. Notably, this model demonstrates greater efficiency compared to alternative scenarios that, despite employing larger fleets of 16,383 and 323,916 vehicles, resulted in greater load shedding.
Keywords: Renewable energy; Regulation strategies; Electric vehicle aggregators; Optimal power distribution; Bidding price; Optimal fleet size

Ziliang Wei, Yang Geng, Hao Tang, Yang Zhao, Borong Lin,
Cost-effective sizing method of Vehicle-to-Building chargers and energy storage systems during the planning stage of smart micro-grid,
eTransportation,
Volume 21,
2024,
100343,
ISSN 2590-1168,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.etran.2024.100343.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S259011682400033X)
Abstract: Demand side management (DSM) is a great challenge for new power systems based on renewable energy. Vehicle-to-Building (V2B) and Energy Storage Systems (ESS) are two important and effective tools. However, existing studies lack the sizing method of bidirectional chargers and ESSs. This study has proposed a cost-effective sizing method of V2B chargers and ESSs during the planning stage. By developing a linear model that clusters electric vehicle users based on mobility patterns and employing mixed integer linear programming for day-ahead control strategies, the method minimizes the dynamic payback period of initial investments. Tested in an office park featuring photovoltaic generation, the optimal configuration of 50% V2B chargers and 1 ESS significantly reduces cumulative peak-hour load and peak power by 51.3% and 42.4%, respectively. The price and rated power of EV chargers on the optimal sizing result are also investigated, providing guidance for the design and operation of micro-grid systems. Furthermore, the study suggests further exploration into actual data acquisition, real-time control strategy enhancement, and comprehensive user behavior for broader application.
Keywords: Vehicle-to-building; Energy storage system; Optimal sizing; Smart micro-grid; Cost effective

S. Ajayan, A. Immanuel Selvakumar,
Metaheuristic optimization techniques to design solar-fuel cell-battery energy system for locomotives,
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy,
Volume 47, Issue 3,
2022,
Pages 1845-1862,
ISSN 0360-3199,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.10.130.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360319921041628)
Abstract: This work proposes a design methodology of a Solar-Fuel Cell-Battery Energy System (SFCBES), which is proficient in supplying the energy requirements of a passenger train and with least cost, decide ratings of fuel cell pack and battery. The prospective work considers Indian Railways passenger locomotive with its real-time driving cycles. A design optimization method is articulated to solve cost minimization objective function, under the constraints such as fuel cell capacity, battery SOC limits, and average power demand of the locomotive. Detailed modelling of the hybrid power sources and locomotive is done and estimated for two practical driving cycles of the locomotive. Various cases including two intelligent energy management methods, three gradients, a hybrid power system with and without solar panels are considered. In this work, six metaheuristic algorithms namely Artificial Bee Colony (ABC), Differential Evolution (DE), Firefly Algorithm (FA), Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), Invasive Weed Optimization (IWO), and Teaching Learning Based Optimization (TLBO) are employed in the solution of cost minimization problem. The results declared that, among various algorithms considered, TLBO gave a better performance with minimum cost and earlier convergence among the cases considered.
Keywords: Component sizing; Consumption minimization; Electric vehicle; Energy system; Metaheuristic algorithm

Bindeshwar Singh, Swati Singh,
GA-based optimization for integration of DGs, STATCOM and PHEVs in distribution systems,
Energy Reports,
Volume 5,
2019,
Pages 84-103,
ISSN 2352-4847,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2018.09.005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352484718302476)
Abstract: This paper presents a Genetic Algorithms (GAs) for integration of various types of Distributed Generations (DGs), Static Synchronous Compensator (STATCOM) and Plug-in-Hybrid Electric Vehicle (PHEVs) with different static load models (DSLMs) such as LM-1, LM-2, LM-3, LM-4 and LM-5, respectively in distribution systems from minimization of total real power loss of the system viewpoint. In this analysis, the system power factor taken as power system performances in various cases such as without DGs, with various types of DGs, integration of DGs and STATCOM, integration of DGs, STATCOM and PHEVs in distribution system with DSLMs. The proposed methodology has been tested for IEEE-37 bus distribution test system. This research work is very much useful for researchers, scientific, industrial, academicians and practitioners for whose are working in the fields of integration of renewable energy sources, FACTS controllers and PHEVs in distribution systems with DSLMs from minimization of total real power loss of the system viewpoint. This research work also is useful for practical implementations of integration of renewable energy sources, FACTS controllers and PHEVs in distribution systems with DSLMs for enhancement of different power system performances from minimization of total real power loss of the system viewpoint.
Keywords: Distributed Generations (DGs); Location and size; Static Synchronous Compensator (STATCOM); Plug-in-Hybrid Electric Vehicle (PHEVs); Genetic Algorithms (GAs); Distribution systems

A. Ahmad, J. Meyboom, P. Bauer, Z. Qin,
Techno-economic analysis of energy storage systems integrated with ultra-fast charging stations: A dutch case study,
eTransportation,
Volume 24,
2025,
100411,
ISSN 2590-1168,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.etran.2025.100411.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590116825000189)
Abstract: A fast and efficient charging infrastructure has become indispensable in the evolving energy landscape and thriving electric vehicle (EV) market. Irrespective of the charging stations’ internal alternating current (AC) or direct current (DC) bus configurations, the main concern is the exponential growth in charging demands, resulting in network congestion issues. In the context of exponential EV growth and the provision of charging facilities from low-voltage distribution networks, the distribution network may require frequent upgrades to meet the rising charging demands. To avoid network congestion problems and minimize operational expenses (OE) by integrating energy storage systems (ESS) into ultra-fast charging stations (UFCS). This paper presents a techno-economic analysis of a UFCS equipped with a battery ESS (BESS). To reduce reliance on the electric grid and minimize OE, a dual-objective optimization problem is formulated and solved via grid search and dual-simplex algorithms. Analytical energy and physical BESS models are employed to evaluate the optimization matrices. The intricacies of BESS aging are examined to ensure an optimal BESS size with a more extensive lifespan than the corresponding payback period. The integrated BESS significantly reduced reliance on the grid to tackle network congestion while fulfilling charging demands. The dynamic pricing (DP) structure has proven more favorable, as the average per unit cost remains lower than the static tariff (ST). Results illustrate that integrating BESS reduces the OE and peak-to-average ratio (PAR) by 5-to-49% and 16-to-73%, respectively. Moreover, the combination of 70% BESS and 30% grid capacities outperforms the other configurations with a 73% reduction in PAR and a 49% reduction in OE before BESS reaches the end-of-life.
Keywords: Electric vehicles; Ultra-fast charging stations; Battery energy storage systems; Dynamic pricing; Operational expenses

Afshin Pahlavanhoseini, Mohammad Sadegh Sepasian,
Optimal planning of PEV fast charging stations using an auction-based method,
Journal of Cleaner Production,
Volume 246,
2020,
118999,
ISSN 0959-6526,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.118999.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652619338697)
Abstract: In recent years, the plug-in electric vehicles (PEVs) have attracted a lot of attention. For integration of PEVs, proper planning of PEV charging stations is necessary. Location and size of fast charging stations (FCSs) are very important for distribution companies (DISCOs) and FCS investors. In this paper, FCS planning problem is modeled as a mixed-integer nonlinear programming (MINLP) from DISCO point of view. The proposed method is based on the dynamic auction, and a co-evolutionary genetic algorithm is used to solve the problem. FCS investors bid DISCO for energy in different locations. The DISCO, as the auctioneer, determines the location and size of FCSs based on the bids received at each location so that its profit is maximized. In the proposed model, capacitor and feeder installations are considered to satisfy the bus voltage limit and the apparent power capacity constraint of feeders, respectively. The effectiveness of the proposed method is demonstrated by numerical results. Our work shows that the proposed method can be used as a proper tool for fast FCS optimal planning in the presence of private investors of FCSs. Furthermore, in the new environment of power systems, dynamic auctions can be utilized in FCS planning. In addition, the capacitor and feeder installations can be effectively used for getting a better value of DISCO objective function.
Keywords: Distribution company; Plug-in electric vehicle; Fast charging station; Auction; Co-evolutionary genetic algorithm

Francesco Guzzi, Diana Neves, Carlos A. Silva,
Integration of smart grid mechanisms on microgrids energy modelling,
Energy,
Volume 129,
2017,
Pages 321-330,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2017.04.084.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544217306503)
Abstract: Due to security reasons, when assessing long-term planning in isolated microgrids, it is crucial to consider, the system's short-term variability. In this way, the need to develop modelling and planning decision-aid tools for grid managers, towards an optimal integration of renewable energy in isolated microgrids, is emerging. These tools shall combine short-term variability with long-term planning, while addressing multiple smart grid integration challenges. The present work proposes the evolution of an economic dispatch model to an integrated modelling tool, adding planning features. These consist in the implementation and sizing of different renewable and storage energy systems, and the development of demand scenarios, as the introduction of electric vehicles, demand response strategies, and/or residential efficiency measures. Levelized cost of electricity, operation costs, CO2 emissions and renewable shares are quantified. Terceira Island in Azores, is adopted as case study to validate the model. Results show that this tool has a great potential for supporting planning decisions, obtaining valuable parameters to analyze the proposed strategies, as the storage suitability, need of renewable curtailment or cost increase due to electric vehicles deployment. The integrated features allow understanding whether a new technology, besides being technically feasible, is economically viable with respect to the existing system.
Keywords: Economic dispatch; Microgrids; Renewable energy; Energy storage; Levelized cost of electricity

Huan Li, Mats Alaküla,
The optimal capacity expansion planning for the terminals of the logistics company,
Applied Energy,
Volume 374,
2024,
124005,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.124005.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261924013886)
Abstract: To reduce carbon emissions, logistics companies take measures to achieve the climate neutrality target to reach “Green Logistics.” As one of the valuable measures, gradually replacing present fossil fuel vehicles with electric vehicles for parcel delivery and linehaul transportation is scheduled at the terminals of logistics companies. The charging load of a fully electrified vehicle fleet challenges the terminal power system. The integrated optimization of sizing and energy management strategy is employed to design, model, optimize, and compare capacity expansion plans involving different combinations and various energy elements. These plans include upgrading the grid connection through the addition of a new transformer and incorporating renewable energy sources and/or energy storage sources. The evaluation encompasses both technical and economic considerations. The effects of different prices of electricity and components, energy management strategy, and uncertainty of power generation and load demand on the choice of optimal solutions, corresponding component sizes, and overall cost were compared and analyzed. The economic feasibility of upgrading the grid connection is demonstrated to be superior compared to utilizing energy storage sources.
Keywords: Capacity expansion planning; Terminals; Logistics company; Solar panels; Energy storage sources; Sizing and Energy management

Ahmad K. ALAhmad, Renuga Verayiah, Saleh Ba-swaimi, Hussain Shareef, Agileswari Ramasam,
Enhancing green energy integration through strategic planning of renewable generators, EV parking lots, and stationary battery storage systems,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 113,
2025,
115639,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2025.115639.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X25003524)
Abstract: Renewable energy sources (RESs) and electric vehicles (EVs) are central to global efforts to reduce carbon emissions and promote sustainable energy transitions. The increasing integration of renewable resources, such as solar and wind power, along with the rising adoption of EVs, underscores the need for robust strategies to optimize their incorporation into power systems. This study proposes a strategic, long-term planning optimization framework for the effective integration of green energy technologies. The framework emphasizes the optimal deployment of wind and photovoltaic (PV) distributed generators (DGs) for RESs and the establishment of plug-in electric vehicle (PEV) charging infrastructure within distribution systems (DS). Furthermore, stationary battery energy storage systems (SBESSs) are integrated to enhance the penetration of RESs and EVs. The proposed framework determines optimal locations, sizes, and operational strategies for RESs, PEV infrastructure, and SBESSs while addressing technical, operational, and economic constraints. It accounts for uncertainties such as renewable generation variability, energy prices, electricity demand, and EV energy and time dynamics. Monte Carlo simulations (MCS) and the backward reduction method (BRM) are employed to analyse various scenarios and ensure computational efficiency. Additionally, a coordinated charging and discharging control mechanism for SBESSs and EVs is developed to manage active and reactive power, thereby improving overall system performance. The framework simultaneously minimizes three objectives: long-term planning and operation cost, total power loss, and voltage deviation. Advanced optimization algorithms, including the non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm (NSGA-II) and multi-objective particle swarm optimization (MOPSO), are utilized to achieve these goals. The methodology is validated on a 69-bus system under four distinct configurations. Results indicate that the integration of wind, PV, PEV infrastructure, and SBESSs significantly enhances green energy penetration and system efficiency compared to other configurations. For instance, the integration of RESs and PEVs increases RES penetration from 3.35 MVA to 3.80 MVA with an optimal EV fleet size of 249 vehicles, achieving a 2.14 % reduction in total cost, albeit with a 6.33 % increase in power loss and a 2.03 % rise in voltage deviation compared to the RES-only scenario. The addition of SBESSs further improves RES penetration to 3.90 MVA, reduces costs by an additional 0.88 %, and mitigates power loss and voltage deviation by 13.36 % and 9.80 %, respectively, though it reduces the EV fleet size from 249 to 168 vehicles. These findings highlight the effectiveness of the proposed framework in optimizing green energy integration and advancing sustainable energy systems.
Keywords: Long-term planning model; Renewable energy sources (RESs); Plug-in electric vehicles parking lots (PEV-PL); Stationary battery energy storage systems (SBESSs); Uncertainties; Charging-discharging control strategy

Korra Balu, V. Mukherjee,
Optimal deployment of electric vehicle charging stations, renewable distributed generation with battery energy storage and distribution static compensator in radial distribution network considering uncertainties of load and generation,
Applied Energy,
Volume 359,
2024,
122707,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2024.122707.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261924000904)
Abstract: This research article proposes a novel approach for assimilating the electric vehicle (EV) charging stations (EVCSs)/EV battery swapping stations (EVBSSs) in radial distribution system (RDS) while minimizing the unfavorable impact on various performance parameters. The deployment of EVCSs/EVBSS(s) in the RDS consumes additional active power from the power system. To enhance the system sustainability, it is essential to incorporate the renewable distributed generations (DGs) (like solar photovoltaic (SPV), wind turbine (WT) and biomass) and distribution static compensator (DSTATCOM) of best size at suitable site in the RDS to reduce the unfavorable effects of EVCSs/EVBSS(s) demand. In addition, a novel multi-objective student psychology based optimization (MOSPBO) technique is proposed to obtain the best site and size of renewable DGs and DSTATCOM in medium RDS (such as IEEE 33-node) and large-scale RDS (like practical Brazil 136-node) for four different load models contemplating the time-sequence curves of load demand and generation of SPV and WT over 96-h. The proposed MOSPBO method is initially scrutinized on multi-objective benchmark test functions to verify its optimization proficiency. The obtained outcomes reveal that the proposed algorithm yields exceptional performance in searching for the complete pareto sets and pareto front on the considered benchmark test functions. The simulation results reveal that the attained positions and size of renewable DGs and DSTATCOM along with EVCSs/EVBSS(s) in the RDS employing MOSPBO method may be viable ones. The attained outcomes will undoubtedly benefit the power distribution and EV companies in enhancing the proficiency and dependability of the system.
Keywords: Battery energy storage; Electric vehicle charging station; Multi-objective student psychology based optimization; Radial distribution system; Solar photovoltaic; Wind turbine

Francesca Marasciuolo, Konstantinos Stamatis, Giuseppe Forte, Maria Dicorato, Liana M. Cipcigan,
Carbon emission evaluation for stationary storage systems in EV parking lots,
Journal of Energy Storage,
Volume 102, Part B,
2024,
114137,
ISSN 2352-152X,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2024.114137.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352152X2403723X)
Abstract: With the wide spread of electric vehicles and relevant grid-powered charging infrastructures, a safe and low-carbon integration in power systems is particularly challenging, due to variation of electricity generation mix over different time frames. As moving towards a fully green energy system, optimizing energy consumption during low-carbon periods, especially with suitable energy storage systems, can have substantial environmental advantages. In this article, the influence of stationary storage inclusion into electric vehicle parking lots on weekly operation is assessed by means of optimal daily schedule considering economic (cost minimization) and environmental (indirect carbon emission minimization) targets. Different storage sizes and EV charging rates are examined for assessing better exploitations in different weeks of operation. The evaluation of EV smart charging in combination with storage is considered as well. Results show the advantage of integrating battery storage system into the parking lot, achieving cost reduction as well as carbon emission reduction for most of charging rates considered. Further contributions in economic and environmental benefits are reached by implementing EV smart charging scheduling.
Keywords: Battery management; Carbon emissions; Charging stations; Electric vehicles; Linear programming; Optimal scheduling

Murat Gökçek, Nicola Paltrinieri, Yiliu Liu, Eulàlia Badia, Ahmet Şakir Dokuz, Ayşe Erdoğmuş, Baki Barış Urhan, Özge Yoldaş,
Optimum sizing of hybrid renewable power systems for on-site hydrogen refuelling stations: Case studies from Türkiye and Spain,
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy,
Volume 59,
2024,
Pages 715-729,
ISSN 0360-3199,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.02.068.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360319924004786)
Abstract: One of the main barriers to the adoption of fuel cell vehicles (FCEVs) is the limited availability of hydrogen refuelling stations (HRSs). The presence of these stations is crucial in facilitating the provision of fuel for FCEVs, which rely on hydrogen as a source of power generation. Renewable energy sources offer significant advantages for hydrogen production at these stations, as they are environmentally friendly and can reduce costs. In this study, it is provided a techno-economic analysis of an on-site hydrogen refuelling station powered by a hybrid renewable energy generation system using HOMER software in Niğde, Türkiye, and Zaragoza, Spain. Three different power system scenarios were evaluated to refuel 24 vehicles per day for each region throughout the year. The results of the analysis showed that the most optimal system architecture for Niğde was with a solar panel power generation system, with a levelized cost of hydrogen (LCOH) of 6.15 $/kg and the net present cost (NPC) of $6,832,393. The most optimal system architecture for Zaragoza was a wind turbine-photovoltaic panel power generation system, with an LCOH of 5.83 $/kg and NPC of $6,499,723. The annual amount of CO2 emissions avoided by using renewable resources in hydrogen production was calculated as 2,673,453 kg for Niğde and 2,366,573 kg for Zaragoza. The study also found that the cost of hydrogen production increases with decreasing the HRS production capacity. The use of renewable energy generation systems for hydrogen production will enable countries to achieve net-zero emission targets and reduce the need to import fossil fuels to meet energy demands in the transportation sector. The present study makes several contributions towards the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (3, 7, 11, and 13) and has the potential to facilitate the rapid adoption of FCEVs.
Keywords: On-site hydrogen production; Fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEVs); Hydrogen refuelling station; Renewable electricity

Yongsheng Zhu, Junlin Yang, Yan Dong, Xue Li, Tongkui Ding, Dongya Wu, Caijing Nie,
Game theoretic of sizing optimization for Wind/PV/EVs based on representative days selection,
Electric Power Systems Research,
Volume 213,
2022,
108662,
ISSN 0378-7796,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2022.108662.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378779622007325)
Abstract: In recent years, hybrid power systems (HPSs) with renewable energy sources, such as wind power and photovoltaic (PV) power, have been used as one of the most effective methods to address resource shortages and environmental pollution. In this paper, a model based non-cooperative game theory is developed to optimize the capacity configuration problem with wind power, PV power, and electric vehicles (EVs). The model is integrated with economic factors, such as electricity sales income, investments, and power supply reliability costs. An iterative search algorithm is used to solve the proposed game model, and the particle swarm optimization algorithm was used to optimize the income of each player. Mixed integer multi-objective linear programming (MIMLP) is used to establish the representative days selection model of resources and load demands. To verify the rationality of the model, the grid-connected hybrid power generation system with different game participants and line transmission capacities was studied. Furthermore, the representative days results of the daily load rate and peak valley ratio generated by MIMLP are compared with those obtained using k-means clustering and a scenario reduction method. The results reveal that the proposed model and related strategies can realize a reasonable allocation of resources and effectively improve the operation economy of power systems.
Keywords: Game theory; Hybrid power systems; Capacity configuration; Representative days

Mónica Hernández Cedillo, Hongjian Sun, Jing Jiang, Yue Cao,
Dynamic pricing and control for EV charging stations with solar generation,
Applied Energy,
Volume 326,
2022,
119920,
ISSN 0306-2619,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2022.119920.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261922011771)
Abstract: Demand response is one of the most promising tools for smart grids to integrate more renewable energy sources. One critical challenge to overcome is how to establish pricing and control strategies for integrating more electric vehicles (EVs) and renewable energy sources. This paper proposes a dynamic optimal operation of a solar-powered EV charging station where onsite solar generation, number of EVs in the system, historical EV response to price, EV technical specifications and EV driving behaviour vary. A bi-level optimisation approach is proposed, where pricing tariffs ensure an economic and price responsive operation, then EV charging schedules are computed for energy bidding capacity to provide balancing services. Simulations are conduced to evaluate the performance of unidirectional and bidirectional EV charging at different charging speeds and demand elasticity. Results demonstrate the potential of extra revenue streams coming from the participation in energy markets compared to that of EV charging alone. Additionally, limitations of energy bidding with battery size, trip requirements and charging ratings are discussed to show insights into the operation of charging stations.
Keywords: Smart grid; Demand response; EV charging; Renewable energy; Optimisation

David Fischer, Arne Surmann, Wolfgang Biener, Oliver Selinger-Lutz,
From residential electric load profiles to flexibility profiles – A stochastic bottom-up approach,
Energy and Buildings,
Volume 224,
2020,
110133,
ISSN 0378-7788,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2020.110133.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378778819335777)
Abstract: This paper presents a stochastic bottom-up model for flexibility in the residential electric load profile. The model accounts for user-behaviour and all relevant technologies, characterising their diversity in sizing and controller settings. The flexibility of technology is mapped into a linear electrical storage equivalent model, which is parameterised on-the-fly during simulation of the load profiles. Using a linear storage representation makes it suitable for optimisation methods that are commonly used in optimal controls. The model is used to study the flexibility of individual technologies as well as of a residential area in Germany taking into account technology penetration rates. The results indicate that EV and PV battery systems offer the largest values of switchable power and storage capacity. However when technology penetration rates are taken into account, heat pumps emerge as a major provider of flexibility.
Keywords: Flexibility; Electric load profile; Stochastic bottom-up modelling; Optimal controls; Smart grid

Antonio Colmenar-Santos, Ana-Rosa Linares-Mena, David Borge-Diez, Carlos-Domingo Quinto-Alemany,
Impact assessment of electric vehicles on islands grids: A case study for Tenerife (Spain),
Energy,
Volume 120,
2017,
Pages 385-396,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2016.11.097.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544216317364)
Abstract: The penetration of electric vehicles is a key instrument in the operation of smart grids. Their active participation in the electrical system is proposed as a tool to increase security of supply, successfully reducing the large differences that occur between periods of higher and lower electricity demand. This research presents an analysis of the vehicle-to-grid impact in low capacity electrical systems, as in the case of islands, aiming to establish a charge/discharge pattern that facilitates the penetration of electric vehicles in weak grids. In such a way, a comprehensive scenario needs to be assessed in order to obtain significant results to be applied not only in islands and outermost regions but also in scaled systems such as minigrids. To achieve this objective, a theoretical method for the efficient charge/discharge management of electric vehicles is proposed, defined by a multi-objective model based on criteria of mobility and technical requirements. The proposed model is applied to the island of Tenerife, which quantifies the electric vehicle penetration in a real case. The results show that grids in islands can assimilate “low” or “transition” penetrations of electric vehicles, so their use as storage systems allow to significantly reduce the amplitude difference between valleys and peaks of the electric energy demand curve and thereby to contribute to the efficient management of smart grids.
Keywords: Demand-side; Energy performance; Smart grids; Small-size grids; Electric vehicles

Pankaj Kumar Dubey, Bindeshwar Singh, Deependra Singh,
Integration of Distributed Generations and electric vehicles in the distribution system,
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
Volume 137, Part A,
2024,
109036,
ISSN 0952-1976,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2024.109036.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197624011941)
Abstract: Power quality challenges are a major problem these days because of the significant increase in load demand and the existence of various reasons for disruptions in the distribution system. A voltage sag or a decrease in the magnitude of the line voltage can be brought on by rapid fluctuations in load or distribution system issues. Enhancing the grid current profile, reducing grid voltage sag, and improving other performances can all be achieved through the combination of electric vehicles with distribution generation systems. In this paper, the integration of Distributed Generation with Electric Vehicles in the distribution system has been done to enhance system performances such as true power loss index, imaginary power loss index, voltage deviation index, short circuit current index, cost function, and environmental impact reduction index for 16 bus distribution system in constant impedance, constant current, and constant power load models, or ZIP load models through proper location, sizing, coordinated controlling, and types of Distributed Generation and Electric Vehicle pairs for both charging and discharging modes by adopting Hybrid Genetic Algorithm - Monte Carlo Simulation optimization methodologies. This study's primary goal is to determine the optimal distribution generation and electric vehicle pairing to improve the aforementioned parameters, which will assist researchers in their future planning. Researchers, industry professionals, scientists, and individuals working with Distributed Generation and Electric vehicles in the smart grid will find this statement to be of great use.
Keywords: Coordinated control; Distributed generation; Distribution system; Electric vehicles; Hybrid techniques; Load models; Size; Types; & location

Kang Miao Tan, Vigna K. Ramachandaramurthy, Jia Ying Yong,
Optimal vehicle to grid planning and scheduling using double layer multi-objective algorithm,
Energy,
Volume 112,
2016,
Pages 1060-1073,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2016.07.008.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S036054421630929X)
Abstract: Vehicle to grid is a revolutionary technology that allows energy exchange between electric vehicles and power grid for mutual advantages. The implementation of appropriate vehicle to grid energy management system can maximize the potential of electric vehicles to provide grid ancillary services. This paper proposes an optimal vehicle to grid planning and scheduling by utilizing a novel double layer multi-objective algorithm. This optimization algorithm utilizes the grid-connected electric vehicles to perform peak load shaving and load levelling services to minimize the power grid load variance in the first layer optimization. Meanwhile, the second layer optimization minimizes the reactive power compensation for grid voltage regulation and therefore, optimizes the vehicle to grid charger's capacitor sizing. The second layer optimization algorithm utilizes an approximated formula from the simulation of a vehicle to grid charger. The proposed vehicle to grid optimization algorithm considers various power grid and electric vehicle constraints for practicality purpose. With the real time implementation of the proposed algorithm, the optimization results show that the power load curve is effectively followed the preset constant target loading, while the grid voltage is successfully regulated to the predetermined voltage level with minimal amount of reactive power supply from the optimal charger's capacitor.
Keywords: Battery charger; Bidirectional power flow; Electric vehicle; Optimization; Vehicle to grid; Voltage regulation

Musa Terkes, Zafer Öztürk, Alpaslan Demirci, Said Mirza Tercan,
Optimal sizing and feasibility analysis of second-life battery energy storage systems for community microgrids considering carbon reduction,
Journal of Cleaner Production,
Volume 421,
2023,
138507,
ISSN 0959-6526,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2023.138507.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652623026653)
Abstract: The rapid development of distributed renewable energy has made energy storage essential for efficient operation. However, energy storage is challenging for prosumers due to high investment costs and long payback periods. The second use of batteries has been evaluated as an alternative energy storage after the first service in electric vehicles with the remaining 80% capacity. This study investigates the feasibility of using secondary-use batteries as shared storage for prosumers. Financial and technical break-even points regarding the gradually increasing carbon limit on the way to 100% renewable have been determined. The proposed method's performance has been verified by conducting sensitivity analyses regarding various environmental and economic characteristics. The self-consumption rates have been achieved by 65.9% in Spain (Madrid) and 49.9% in England (London), and 48.5% in Türkiye (Antalya) without incentive. Increasing the carbon tax by 1 $/t for high and low energy tariffs can reduce carbon emissions by 181.3 and 1607 kg/yr. The optimum sizes remain until the carbon tax threshold is 60 $/tCO2eq for high energy tariffs. After 60 $/tCO2eq, it is tended to enlarge the hybrid power system. However, severe carbon emission restriction for zero carbon targets prevents the optimum system design since the carbon reduction cost increases to 232.7–304.8 $/kg. This study encourages investors and prosumers to plan the shared energy storage system sensibly and guides governments to develop realistic incentive mechanisms to implement second-life batteries effectively.
Keywords: Energy storage; Hybrid energy system; Photovoltaics; Optimization; Second-life battery

Domenico Mazzeo, Münür Sacit Herdem, Nicoletta Matera, Matteo Bonini, John Z. Wen, Jatin Nathwani, Giuseppe Oliveti,
Artificial intelligence application for the performance prediction of a clean energy community,
Energy,
Volume 232,
2021,
120999,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2021.120999.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544221012470)
Abstract: Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) are proposed for sizing and simulating a clean energy community (CEC) that employs a PV-wind hybrid system, coupled with energy storage systems and electric vehicle charging stations, to meet the building district energy demand. The first ANN is used to forecast the energy performance indicators, which are satisfied load fraction and the utilization factor of the energy generated, while the second ANN is used to estimate the grid energy indication factor. ANNs are trained with a very large database in any climatic conditions and for a flexible power system configuration and varying electrical loads. They directly predict the yearly CEC energy performance without performing any system dynamic simulations using sophisticated models of each CEC component. Only eight dimensionless input parameters are required, such as the fractions of wind and battery power installed, yearly mean and standard deviation values of the total horizontal solar radiation, wind speed, air temperature and load. The Garson algorithm was applied for the evaluation of each input influence on each output. Optimized ANNs are composed of a single hidden layer with twenty neurons, which leads to a very high prediction accuracy of CECs which are different from those used in ANN training.
Keywords: Machine learning; Artificial neural network; Solar PV; Wind turbines; Electric vehicle charging; Battery storage

Rizk M. Rizk-Allah, Islam A. Hassan, Vaclav Snasel, Aboul Ella Hassanien,
An optimal standalone wind-photovoltaic power plant system for green hydrogen generation: Case study for hydrogen refueling station,
Results in Engineering,
Volume 22,
2024,
102234,
ISSN 2590-1230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rineng.2024.102234.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590123024004894)
Abstract: Sustainability goals include the utilization of renewable energy resources to supply the energy needs in addition to wastewater treatment to satisfy the water demand. Moreover, hydrogen has become a promising energy carrier and green fuel to decarbonize the industrial and transportation sectors. In this context, this research investigates a wind-photovoltaic power plant to produce green hydrogen for hydrogen refueling station and to operate an electrocoagulation water treatment unit in Ostrava, Czech Republic's northeast region. The study conducts a techno-economic analysis through HOMER Pro® software for optimal sizing of the power station components and to investigate the economic indices of the plant. The power station employs photovoltaic panels and wind turbines to supply the required electricity for electrolyzers and electrocoagulation reactors. As an off-grid system, lead acid batteries are utilized to store the surplus electricity. Wind speed and solar irradiation are the key role site dependent parameters that determine the cost of hydrogen, electricity, and wastewater treatment. The simulated model considers the capital, operating, and replacement costs for system components. In the proposed system, 240 kg of hydrogen as well as 720 kWh electrical energy are daily required for the hydrogen refueling station and the electrocoagulation unit, respectively. Accordingly, the power station annually generates 6,997,990 kWh of electrical energy in addition to 85595 kg of green hydrogen. Based on the economic analysis, the project's NPC is determined to be €5.49 M and the levelized cost of Hydrogen (LCH) is 2.89 €/kg excluding compressor unit costs. This value proves the effectiveness of this power system, which encourages the utilization of green hydrogen for fuel-cell electric vehicles (FCVs). Furthermore, emerging electrocoagulation studies produce hydrogen through wastewater treatment, increasing hydrogen production and lowering LCH. Therefore, this study is able to provide practicable methodology support for optimal sizing of the power station components, which is beneficial for industrialization and economic development as well as transition toward sustainability and autonomous energy systems.
Keywords: Hydrogen refueling station; Renewable energy power; Levelized hydrogen cost; Optimization; Sustainability

Marcos Tostado-Véliz, Ahmad Rezaee Jordehi, Seyed Amir Mansouri, Francisco Jurado,
A two-stage IGDT-stochastic model for optimal scheduling of energy communities with intelligent parking lots,
Energy,
Volume 263, Part D,
2023,
126018,
ISSN 0360-5442,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2022.126018.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544222029048)
Abstract: The proliferation of green mobility will bring multiple benefits to the society; however, it may be counterproductive for power systems if its integration is not properly planned. In this context, Intelligent Parking Lots have emerged as a valuable paradigm for integration of electric vehicles into energy systems. This framework consists of a set of vehicles that are managed as a whole and makes possible to exploit them as large storage facilities through their vehicle-to-grid capability. This particular feature may be significantly advantageous for energy communities since they can exploit parking lots as collective storage systems. In this paper, a two-stage optimal scheduling framework has been developed for optimal scheduling of energy communities. The proposal uses a stochastic representation of the state-of-charge of the lots with the end of accounting for random behaviour of uncertainties. On the other hand, the uncertainty of the upstream energy market is dealt with Information Gap Decision theory, resulting in an original hybridization that allows to adopt a risk-averse strategy by the operator. The optimization problem is formulated as a Mixed-Integer Linear programming model that can be efficiently solved by average solvers. A case study is performed to validate the new proposal and analyse the role of Intelligent Parking Lots in energy communities. The results evidence the advantages that electric vehicles may bring to communities if they are optimally exploited, highlighting their capability to enhance the efficiency and economy of the system.
Keywords: Electric vehicle; Intelligent parking lot; Energy community; Energy storage
